
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 4294 Introduced in House (IH)]

113th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                H. R. 4294

To amend part A of title IV of the Social Security Act to exclude child 
care from the determination of the 5-year limit on assistance under the 
    temporary assistance for needy families program, and for other 
                               purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                             March 25, 2014

 Mr. Crowley introduced the following bill; which was referred to the 
   Committee on Ways and Means, and in addition to the Committee on 
Education and the Workforce, for a period to be subsequently determined 
 by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of such provisions as 
        fall within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
To amend part A of title IV of the Social Security Act to exclude child 
care from the determination of the 5-year limit on assistance under the 
    temporary assistance for needy families program, and for other 
                               purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Children First Act of 2014''.

SEC. 2. EXCLUSION OF CHILD CARE FROM THE DEFINITION OF TANF ASSISTANCE.

    Section 408(a)(7) of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 608(a)(7)) 
is amended by adding at the end the following:
                    ``(H) Limitation on meaning of `assistance' for 
                families receiving child care.--For purposes of 
                subparagraph (A), any funds provided under this part 
                that are used to provide child care for a family during 
                a month under the State program funded under this part 
                shall not be considered assistance under the 
                program.''.

SEC. 3. INCREASE IN FUNDING FOR CHILD CARE.

    Section 418(a)(3) of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 618(a)(3)) 
is amended to read as follows:
            ``(3) Appropriation.--For grants under this section, there 
        are appropriated--
                    ``(A) $3,667,000,000 for fiscal year 2015;
                    ``(B) $3,917,000,000 for fiscal year 2016;
                    ``(C) $4,017,000,000 for fiscal year 2017;
                    ``(D) $4,317,000,000 for fiscal year 2018;
                    ``(E) $4,817,000,000 for fiscal year 2019;
                    ``(F) $5,017,000,000 for fiscal year 2020;
                    ``(G) $5,217,000,000 for fiscal year 2021;
                    ``(H) $5,417,000,000 for fiscal year 2022;
                    ``(I) $5,667,000,000 for fiscal year 2023; and
                    ``(J) $5,917,000,000 for fiscal year 2024.''.

SEC. 4. APPLICABILITY OF STATE OR LOCAL HEALTH AND SAFETY STANDARDS TO 
              OTHER TANF CHILD CARE SPENDING.

    Section 402(a) of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 602(a)) is 
amended by adding at the end the following:
            ``(8) Certification of procedures to ensure that child care 
        providers comply with applicable state or local health and 
        safety standards.--A certification by the chief executive 
        officer of the State that procedures are in effect to ensure 
        that any child care provider in the State that provides 
        services funded through expenditures under this part or with 
        qualified State expenditures complies with all applicable State 
        or local health and safety requirements as described in section 
        658E(c)(2)(F) of the Child Care and Development Block Grant Act 
        of 1990.''.

SEC. 5. AVAILABILITY OF CHILD CARE FOR PARENTS REQUIRED TO WORK.

    Section 407(e)(2) of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 607(e)(2)) 
is amended--
            (1) by inserting ``or other individual with custody'' after 
        ``parent''; and
            (2) by striking ``6'' and inserting ``13''.

SEC. 6. APPLICATION OF CHILD CARE AND DEVELOPMENT BLOCK GRANT ACT OF 
              1990 REPORTING RULES TO TANF FUNDS EXPENDED FOR CHILD 
              CARE.

    (a) In General.--Section 411(a) of the Social Security Act (42 
U.S.C. 611(a)) is amended--
            (1) by redesignating paragraph (7) as paragraph (8); and
            (2) by inserting after paragraph (6) the following:
            ``(7) Application of child care and development block grant 
        act of 1990 reporting rules to funds expended for child care.--
        Any funds provided under this part that are expended for child 
        care, whether or not transferred to the Child Care and 
        Development Block Grant Act of 1990, shall be subject to the 
        individual and case data reporting requirements imposed under 
        that Act and need not be included in the report required by 
        paragraph (1) for a fiscal quarter.''.
    (b) Conforming Amendment.--Section 411(a)(1)(A)(ix) of such Act (42 
U.S.C. 611(a)(1)(A)(ix)) is amended by striking ``supplemental 
nutrition assistance program benefits, or subsidized child care, and if 
the latter 2,'' and inserting ``or supplemental nutrition assistance 
program benefits, and if the latter,''.

SEC. 7. EFFECTIVE DATE.

    (a) In General.--Subject to subsections (b) and (c), the amendments 
made by this Act shall take effect on October 1, 2014, and shall apply 
to payments under part A of title IV of the Social Security Act for 
calendar quarters beginning on or after such date, without regard to 
whether regulations to implement the amendments are promulgated by such 
date.
    (b) Application of Reporting Rules.--The amendments made by section 
6 shall take effect on October 1, 2015.
    (c) Delay Permitted if State Legislation Required.--In the case of 
a State plan under section 402(a) of the Social Security Act which the 
Secretary of Health and Human Services determines requires State 
legislation (other than legislation appropriating funds) in order for 
the plan to meet the additional requirements imposed by the amendments 
made by this Act, the State plan shall not be regarded as failing to 
comply with the requirements of such section 402(a) solely on the basis 
of the failure of the plan to meet such additional requirements before 
the 1st day of the 1st calendar quarter beginning after the close of 
the 1st regular session of the State legislature that begins after the 
date of the enactment of this Act. For purposes of the previous 
sentence, in the case of a State that has a 2-year legislative session, 
each year of such session shall be deemed to be a separate regular 
session of the State legislature.
                                 <all>
