
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 2029 Introduced in House (IH)]

113th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                H. R. 2029

To require the Secretary of Energy, in coordination with the Secretary 
of Labor, to establish a program to provide for workforce training and 
        education, at community colleges, in sustainable energy.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                              May 16, 2013

 Mr. Ben Ray Lujan of New Mexico introduced the following bill; which 
      was referred to the Committee on Education and the Workforce

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
To require the Secretary of Energy, in coordination with the Secretary 
of Labor, to establish a program to provide for workforce training and 
        education, at community colleges, in sustainable energy.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Community College Energy Training 
Act of 2013''.

SEC. 2. SUSTAINABLE ENERGY TRAINING PROGRAM FOR COMMUNITY COLLEGES.

    (a) Workforce Training and Education in Sustainable Energy.--From 
funds made available under subsection (c), the Secretary of Energy, in 
coordination with the Secretary of Labor, shall carry out a joint 
sustainable energy workforce training and education program. In 
carrying out the program, the Secretary of Energy, in coordination with 
the Secretary of Labor, shall award grants to community colleges to 
provide workforce training and education in industries and practices 
such as--
            (1) alternative energy, including wind and solar energy;
            (2) high-performance green building construction, design 
        and redevelopment;
            (3) sustainable energy technologies, including chemical 
        technology, nanotechnology, and electrical technology;
            (4) water, energy and resource conservation;
            (5) recycling and waste reduction; and
            (6) sustainable agriculture and farming.
    (b) Award Considerations.--Of the funds made available under 
subsection (c) for a fiscal year, not less than one-half of such funds 
shall be awarded to community colleges with existing (as of the date of 
the award) sustainability programs that lead to certificates, 
credentials, or degrees in one or more of the industries and practices 
described in paragraphs (1) through (6) of subsection (a).
    (c) Authorization of Appropriations.--There is authorized to be 
appropriated to carry out this section $100,000,000 for each of the 
fiscal years 2014 through 2018.
    (d) Definitions.--In this Act:
            (1) Community college.--The term ``community college'' 
        means an institution of higher education, as defined in section 
        101(a) of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1001(a)), 
        that--
                    (A) provides a 2-year program of instruction for 
                which the institution awards an associate degree; and
                    (B) primarily awards associate degrees.
            (2) High-performance green building.--The term ``high-
        performance green building'' has the meaning given the term in 
        section 401(13) of the Energy Independence and Security Act of 
        2007 (42 U.S.C. 17061).
                                 <all>
