
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 60 Introduced in House (IH)]

113th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                 H. R. 60

To award a Congressional Gold Medal to Malala Yousufzai, in recognition 
of her devoted service to education, justice, and equality in Pakistan.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                            January 3, 2013

 Ms. Jackson Lee introduced the following bill; which was referred to 
                  the Committee on Financial Services

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
To award a Congressional Gold Medal to Malala Yousufzai, in recognition 
of her devoted service to education, justice, and equality in Pakistan.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. FINDINGS.

    Congress finds the following:
            (1) Malala Yousufzai, a young fifteen-year-old girl, took 
        the initiative to stand against the abusive, uncaring, and 
        cold-hearted members of the Taliban in Pakistan.
            (2) Malala Yousufzai understood the danger she faced when 
        sacrificing to promote education for women.
            (3) Malala Yousufzai did not let the fear of danger prevent 
        her from being an activist for justice in Pakistan.
            (4) The first step in fighting for justice for Malala 
        Yousufzai was blogging about life under Taliban rule as the 
        Taliban militants seized the Swat Valley of Pakistan.
            (5) Malala Yousufzai rose to prominence and the world was 
        given the opportunity to see the real lives of many civilians 
        in Pakistan.
            (6) On October 9, 2012, the life of Malala Yousufzai was 
        threatened merely because she was a young girl who advocated 
        for access to education, justice, and equality.
            (7) A Taliban militant attempted to assassinate Malala 
        Yousufzai while she was riding on a school bus, because of her 
        desire for all Pakistanis to have an opportunity to receive an 
        education, regardless of gender.
            (8) Following a cowardly attack on Malala Yousufzai, her 
        message gained international popularity for showing the 
        accurate face of Pakistan.
            (9) Malala Yousufzai is a symbol of hope in a country long 
        beset by violence and despair.
            (10) Malala Yousufzai represents the future of Pakistan, a 
        young Muslim girl who is the new face of Pakistan and an 
        advocate for human rights for women in Pakistan.

SEC. 2. CONGRESSIONAL GOLD MEDAL.

    (a) Presentation Authorized.--The Speaker of the House of 
Representatives and the President pro tempore of the Senate shall make 
appropriate arrangements for the presentation, on behalf of Congress, 
of a gold medal of appropriate design, to Malala Yousufzai in 
recognition of her devoted service to education, justice, and equality 
in Pakistan.
    (b) Design and Striking.--For the purpose of the presentation 
referred to in subsection (a), the Secretary of the Treasury 
(hereinafter in this Act referred to as the ``Secretary'') shall strike 
a gold medal with suitable emblems, devices, and inscriptions to be 
determined by the Secretary.

SEC. 3. DUPLICATE MEDALS.

    The Secretary may strike and sell duplicates in bronze of the gold 
medal struck pursuant to section 2 under such regulations as the 
Secretary may prescribe, at a price sufficient to cover the cost 
thereof, including labor, materials, dies, use of machinery, and 
overhead expenses, and the cost of the gold medal.

SEC. 4. STATUS OF MEDALS.

    (a) National Medals.--The medals struck under this Act are national 
medals for purposes of chapter 51 of title 31, United States Code.
    (b) Numismatic Items.--For purposes of sections 5134 and 5136 of 
title 31, United States Code, all medals struck under this Act shall be 
considered to be numismatic items.

SEC. 5. AUTHORITY TO USE FUND AMOUNTS; PROCEEDS OF SALE.

    (a) Authorization To Use Fund Amounts.--There is authorized to be 
charged against the United States Mint Public Enterprise Fund, such 
amounts as may be necessary to pay for the cost of the medals struck 
pursuant to this Act.
    (b) Proceeds of Sale.--Amounts received from the sale of duplicate 
bronze medals under section 3 shall be deposited in the United States 
Mint Public Enterprise Fund.
                                 <all>
