
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 1542 Referred in Senate (RFS)]

113th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                H. R. 1542


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                             July 23, 2013

Received; read twice and referred to the Committee on Homeland Security 
                        and Governmental Affairs

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 AN ACT


 
To amend the Homeland Security Act of 2002 to establish weapons of mass 
   destruction intelligence and information sharing functions of the 
   Office of Intelligence and Analysis of the Department of Homeland 
 Security and to require dissemination of information analyzed by the 
   Department to entities with responsibilities relating to homeland 
                   security, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``WMD Intelligence and Information 
Sharing Act of 2013''.

SEC. 2. WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION INTELLIGENCE AND INFORMATION 
              SHARING.

    (a) In General.--Subtitle A of title II of the Homeland Security 
Act of 2002 (6 U.S.C. 121 et seq.) is amended by adding at the end the 
following:

``SEC. 210G. WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION INTELLIGENCE AND INFORMATION 
              SHARING.

    ``(a) In General.--The Office of Intelligence and Analysis of the 
Department of Homeland Security shall--
            ``(1) support homeland security-focused intelligence 
        analysis of terrorist actors, their claims, and their plans to 
        conduct attacks involving chemical, biological, radiological, 
        and nuclear materials against the Nation;
            ``(2) support homeland security-focused intelligence 
        analysis of global infectious disease, public health, food, 
        agricultural, and veterinary issues;
            ``(3) support homeland security-focused risk analysis and 
        risk assessments of the homeland security hazards described in 
        paragraphs (1) and (2) by providing relevant quantitative and 
        nonquantitative threat information;
            ``(4) leverage existing and emerging homeland security 
        intelligence capabilities and structures to enhance prevention, 
        protection, response, and recovery efforts with respect to a 
        chemical, biological, radiological, or nuclear attack;
            ``(5) share information and provide tailored analytical 
        support on these threats to State, local, and tribal 
        authorities as well as other national biosecurity and 
        biodefense stakeholders; and
            ``(6) perform other responsibilities, as assigned by the 
        Secretary.
    ``(b) Coordination.--Where appropriate, the Office of Intelligence 
and Analysis shall coordinate with other relevant Department 
components, others in the Intelligence Community, including the 
National Counter Proliferation Center, and other Federal, State, local, 
and tribal authorities, including officials from high-threat areas, and 
enable such entities to provide recommendations on optimal information 
sharing mechanisms, including expeditious sharing of classified 
information, and on how they can provide information to the Department.
    ``(c) Report.--
            ``(1) In general.--Not later than one year after the date 
        of the enactment of this section and annually thereafter, the 
        Secretary shall report to the appropriate congressional 
        committees on--
                    ``(A) the intelligence and information sharing 
                activities under subsection (a) and of all relevant 
                entities within the Department to counter the threat 
                from weapons of mass destruction; and
                    ``(B) the Department's activities in accordance 
                with relevant intelligence strategies.
            ``(2) Assessment of implementation.--The report shall 
        include--
                    ``(A) a description of methods established to 
                assess progress of the Office of Intelligence and 
                Analysis in implementing this section; and
                    ``(B) such assessment.
    ``(d) Definitions.--In this section:
            ``(1) The term `appropriate congressional committees' means 
        the Committee on Homeland Security of the House of 
        Representatives and any committee of the House of 
        Representatives or the Senate having legislative jurisdiction 
        under the rules of the House of Representatives or Senate, 
        respectively, over the matter concerned.
            ``(2) The term `Intelligence Community' has the meaning 
        given that term in section 3(4) of the National Security Act of 
        1947 (50 U.S.C. 401a(4)).
            ``(3) The term `national biosecurity and biodefense 
        stakeholders' means officials from the Federal, State, local, 
        and tribal authorities and individuals from the private sector 
        who are involved in efforts to prevent, protect against, 
        respond to, and recover from a biological attack or other 
        phenomena that may have serious health consequences for the 
        United States, including wide-scale fatalities or infectious 
        disease outbreaks.''.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of contents in section 1(b) of 
such Act is amended by adding at the end of the items relating to such 
subtitle the following:

``Sec. 210G. Weapons of mass destruction intelligence and information 
                            sharing.''.

SEC. 3. DISSEMINATION OF INFORMATION ANALYZED BY THE DEPARTMENT TO 
              STATE, LOCAL, TRIBAL, AND PRIVATE ENTITIES WITH 
              RESPONSIBILITIES RELATING TO HOMELAND SECURITY.

    Section 201(d)(8) of the Homeland Security Act of 2002 (6 U.S.C. 
121(d)(8)) is amended by striking ``and to agencies of State'' and all 
that follows and inserting ``to State, local, tribal, and private 
entities with such responsibilities, and, as appropriate, to the 
public, in order to assist in preventing, deterring, or responding to 
acts of terrorism against the United States.''.

            Passed the House of Representatives July 22, 2013.

            Attest:

                                                 KAREN L. HAAS,

                                                                 Clerk.
