
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 358 Introduced in House (IH)]

113th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                H. R. 358

To direct the United States Fish and Wildlife Service, in coordination 
 with the Army Corps of Engineers, the National Park Service, and the 
 United States Geological Survey, to lead a multiagency effort to slow 
the spread of Asian Carp in the Upper Mississippi and Ohio River basins 
                and tributaries, and for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                            January 23, 2013

 Ms. McCollum (for herself, Mr. Kelly, Mr. Walz, Mr. Latta, Mr. Nolan, 
 Mr. Higgins, Mrs. Bachmann, Mr. Conyers, Ms. Slaughter, Mr. Peterson, 
 and Mr. Paulsen) introduced the following bill; which was referred to 
                   the Committee on Natural Resources

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
To direct the United States Fish and Wildlife Service, in coordination 
 with the Army Corps of Engineers, the National Park Service, and the 
 United States Geological Survey, to lead a multiagency effort to slow 
the spread of Asian Carp in the Upper Mississippi and Ohio River basins 
                and tributaries, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Strategic Response to Asian Carp 
Invasion Act''.

SEC. 2. FINDINGS.

    Congress finds the following:
            (1) The rapid spread of several invasive species of Asian 
        Carp in the Upper Mississippi River and Ohio River basins and 
        tributaries threatens ecosystems and billions of dollars of 
        economic activities connected to outdoor recreation in States 
        throughout the Midwest.
            (2) While Federal efforts have focused on preventing the 
        spread of Asian Carp into the Great Lakes, there is growing 
        recognition of the threat these invasive species pose to other 
        ecosystems in the Upper Mississippi and Ohio River basins.

SEC. 3. MULTIAGENCY EFFORT TO SLOW THE SPREAD OF ASIAN CARP IN THE 
              UPPER MISSISSIPPI AND OHIO RIVER BASINS AND TRIBUTARIES.

    The Director of the United States Fish and Wildlife Service, in 
coordination with the Army Corps of Engineers, the National Park 
Service, and the United States Geological Survey, shall lead a 
multiagency effort to slow the spread of Asian Carp in the Upper 
Mississippi and Ohio River basins and tributaries by providing high-
level technical assistance, coordination, best practices, and support 
to State and local government strategies to slow, and eventually 
eliminate, the threat posed by Asian Carp. To the maximum extent 
practicable, the multiagency effort shall apply lessons learned and 
best practices such as those developed under the Management and Control 
Plan for Bighead, Black, Grass, and Silver Carps in the United States, 
November 2007 and the Asian Carp Control Strategic Framework.

SEC. 4. REPORT TO CONGRESS.

    (a) In General.--The Director of the United States Fish and 
Wildlife Service shall by December 31 of each year submit to the 
Subcommittee on Interior, Environment, and Related Agencies of the 
Committee on Appropriations and the Committee on Natural Resources of 
the House of Representatives a report on the coordinated strategies 
established and progress made toward goals to control and eliminate the 
Asian Carp in the Upper Mississippi and Ohio River basins and 
tributaries.
    (b) Contents.--The Director shall include in each report--
            (1) observed changes in the range of Asian Carp in such 
        waters during the 2-year period preceding submission of the 
        report;
            (2) a summary of Federal agency efforts, including 
        cooperative efforts with non-Federal partners, to control the 
        spread of Asian Carp in such waters;
            (3) research needed that could improve the ability to 
        control such spread;
            (4) quantitative measures that will be used to document 
        progress in controlling such spread; and
            (5) cross-cut accounting of Federal and non-Federal 
        expenditures to control such spread.
                                 <all>
