
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H. Res. 539 Engrossed in House (EH)]

H. Res. 539

                In the House of Representatives, U. S.,

                                                         April 4, 2014.
    Resolved, That at any time after adoption of this resolution the Speaker 
may, pursuant to clause 2(b) of rule XVIII, declare the House resolved into the 
Committee of the Whole House on the state of the Union for consideration of the 
bill (H.R. 1874) to amend the Congressional Budget Act of 1974 to provide for 
macroeconomic analysis of the impact of legislation. The first reading of the 
bill shall be dispensed with. All points of order against consideration of the 
bill are waived. General debate shall be confined to the bill and shall not 
exceed one hour equally divided and controlled by the chair and ranking minority 
member of the Committee on the Budget. After general debate the bill shall be 
considered for amendment under the five-minute rule. The amendments recommended 
by the Committee on the Budget now printed in the bill and the amendment printed 
in part A of the report of the Committee on Rules accompanying this resolution 
shall be considered as adopted in the House and in the Committee of the Whole. 
The bill, as amended, shall be considered as read. All points of order against 
provisions in the bill, as amended, are waived. No further amendment to the 
bill, as amended, shall be in order except those printed in part B of the report 
of the Committee on Rules. Each further amendment may be offered only in the 
order printed in the report, may be offered only by a Member designated in the 
report, shall be considered as read, shall be debatable for the time specified 
in the report equally divided and controlled by the proponent and an opponent, 
shall not be subject to amendment, and shall not be subject to a demand for 
division of the question in the House or in the Committee of the Whole. All 
points of order against such further amendments are waived. At the conclusion of 
consideration of the bill for amendment the Committee shall rise and report the 
bill, as amended, to the House with such further amendments as may have been 
adopted. The previous question shall be considered as ordered on the bill, as 
amended, and any further amendment thereto to final passage without intervening 
motion except one motion to recommit with or without instructions.
    Sec. 2.  Upon adoption of this resolution it shall be in order to consider 
in the House the bill (H.R. 1871) to amend the Balanced Budget and Emergency 
Deficit Control Act of 1985 to reform the budget baseline. All points of order 
against consideration of the bill are waived. The amendment recommended by the 
Committee on the Budget now printed in the bill shall be considered as adopted. 
The bill, as amended, shall be considered as read. All points of order against 
provisions in the bill, as amended, are waived. The previous question shall be 
considered as ordered on the bill, as amended, and on any amendment thereto to 
final passage without intervening motion except: (1) one hour of debate equally 
divided and controlled by the chair and ranking minority member of the Committee 
on the Budget; and (2) one motion to recommit with or without instructions.
    Sec. 3.  Upon adoption of this resolution it shall be in order to consider 
in the House the bill (H.R. 1872) to amend the Balanced Budget and Emergency 
Deficit Control Act of 1985 to increase transparency in Federal budgeting, and 
for other purposes. All points of order against consideration of the bill are 
waived. The amendment in the nature of a substitute recommended by the Committee 
on the Budget now printed in the bill shall be considered as adopted. The bill, 
as amended, shall be considered as read. All points of order against provisions 
in the bill, as amended, are waived. The previous question shall be considered 
as ordered on the bill, as amended, and on any amendment thereto to final 
passage without intervening motion except: (1) one hour of debate equally 
divided and controlled by the chair and ranking minority member of the Committee 
on the Budget; and (2) one motion to recommit with or without instructions.
            Attest:

                                                                          Clerk.
