
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 397 Introduced in House (IH)]

113th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                H. R. 397

To prohibit the disbursement of funds for salaries and expenses of the 
offices of Members and committees of Congress and to hold the salaries 
     of Members of Congress in escrow if Congress does not adopt a 
 concurrent resolution on the budget on or before May 15 of each year, 
                        and for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                            January 23, 2013

  Mr. Latham introduced the following bill; which was referred to the 
Committee on House Administration, and in addition to the Committee on 
   Oversight and Government Reform, for a period to be subsequently 
   determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of such 
 provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
To prohibit the disbursement of funds for salaries and expenses of the 
offices of Members and committees of Congress and to hold the salaries 
     of Members of Congress in escrow if Congress does not adopt a 
 concurrent resolution on the budget on or before May 15 of each year, 
                        and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Do Your Job Act''.

SEC. 2. PROHIBITING DISBURSEMENT OF FUNDS FOR SALARIES AND EXPENSES OF 
              MEMBER AND COMMITTEE OFFICES IF CONGRESS FAILS TO ADOPT 
              BUDGET RESOLUTION.

    (a) Salaries and Expenses of Offices.--
            (1) Prohibition.--If on or before May 15 of any year 
        Congress does not adopt a concurrent resolution on the budget 
        for the fiscal year that begins on October 1 of that year, no 
        funds may be disbursed for the salaries and expenses (including 
        travel expenses) of any of the offices described in subsection 
        (b) until Congress adopts a concurrent resolution on the budget 
        for that fiscal year.
            (2) Treatment of member salaries.--Paragraph (1) does not 
        apply to funds disbursed for the salary of any Member of 
        Congress, which shall be subject to escrow in accordance with 
        section 3.
    (b) Offices Described.--The offices described in this subsection 
are as follows:
            (1) The office of any Member of Congress.
            (2) The office of any standing, select, or joint committee 
        of Congress.
            (3) An office of the House of Representatives for which the 
        appropriation for salaries and expenses of the office for the 
        year involved is provided under the heading ``House Leadership 
        Offices'' in the act making appropriations for the Legislative 
        Branch for the fiscal year involved (in addition to any office 
        of a Member of Congress referred to in paragraph (1)).
            (4) The offices of the President pro Tempore, Majority and 
        Minority Leaders, Majority and Minority Whips, Conferences of 
        the Majority and of the Minority, and Majority and Minority 
        Policy Committees of the Senate (in addition to any office of a 
        Member of Congress referred to in paragraph (1)).

SEC. 3. HOLDING SALARIES OF MEMBERS OF CONGRESS IN ESCROW IF CONGRESS 
              FAILS TO ADOPT BUDGET RESOLUTION.

    (a) Escrow.--If on or before May 15 of any year Congress does not 
adopt a concurrent resolution on the budget for the fiscal year that 
begins on October 1 of that year, the Secretary of the Treasury shall 
deposit all payments otherwise required to be made for the compensation 
of Members of Congress in an escrow account, and shall release such 
payments to the Members only upon the adoption by Congress of a 
concurrent resolution on the budget for that fiscal year.
    (b) Withholding and Remittance of Amounts From Payments Held in 
Escrow.--The Secretary of the Treasury shall provide for the same 
withholding and remittance with respect to a payment deposited in an 
escrow account under subsection (a) that would apply to the payment if 
the payment were not subject to subsection (a).
    (c) Coordination With House and Senate.--The Secretary of the 
Treasury shall enter into such agreements with the Chief Administrative 
Officer of the House of Representatives and the Secretary of the Senate 
as may be necessary to carry out this section.

SEC. 4. MEMBER OF CONGRESS DEFINED.

    In this Act, the term ``Member of Congress'' means an individual 
serving in a position under subparagraph (A), (B), or (C) of section 
601(a) of the Legislative Reorganization Act of 1946 (2 U.S.C. 31).

SEC. 5. EFFECTIVE DATE.

    This Act shall apply with respect to fiscal year 2014 and each 
succeeding fiscal year.
                                 <all>
