
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 1212 Introduced in House (IH)]

113th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                H. R. 1212

      To amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to provide that 
reimbursements for costs of using passenger automobiles for charitable 
        and other organizations are excluded from gross income.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                             March 15, 2013

  Mr. Petri introduced the following bill; which was referred to the 
                      Committee on Ways and Means

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
      To amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to provide that 
reimbursements for costs of using passenger automobiles for charitable 
        and other organizations are excluded from gross income.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Charitable Driving Tax Relief Act of 
2013''.

SEC. 2. MILEAGE REIMBURSEMENTS TO CHARITABLE VOLUNTEERS EXCLUDED FROM 
              GROSS INCOME.

    (a) In General.--Part III of subchapter B of chapter 1 of the 
Internal Revenue Code of 1986 is amended by inserting after section 
139D the following new section:

``SEC. 139E. MILEAGE REIMBURSEMENTS TO CHARITABLE VOLUNTEERS.

    ``(a) In General.--Gross income of an individual does not include 
amounts received from an organization described in section 170(c) as 
reimbursement of operating expenses with respect to use of a passenger 
automobile for the benefit of such organization. The preceding sentence 
shall apply only to the extent that such reimbursement would be 
deductible under this chapter if section 274(d) were applied--
            ``(1) by using the standard business mileage rate 
        established under such section, and
            ``(2) as if the individual were an employee of an 
        organization not described in section 170(c).
    ``(b) Application To Volunteer Services Only.--Subsection (a) shall 
not apply with respect to any expenses relating to the performance of 
services for compensation.
    ``(c) No Double Benefit.--Subsection (a) shall not apply with 
respect to any expenses if the individual claims a deduction or credit 
for such expenses under any other provision of this title.
    ``(d) Exemption From Reporting Requirements.--Section 6041 shall 
not apply with respect to reimbursements excluded from income under 
subsection (a).''.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections for part III of 
subchapter B of chapter 1 of such Code is amended by inserting after 
the item relating to section 139D the following new item:

``Sec. 139E. Reimbursement for use of passenger automobile for 
                            charity.''.
    (c) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this section shall 
apply to taxable years beginning after the date of the enactment of 
this Act.
                                 <all>
