
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H. Res. 661 Engrossed in House (EH)]

H. Res. 661

                In the House of Representatives, U. S.,

                                                         July 10, 2014.
    Resolved, That (a) at any time after adoption of this resolution the Speaker 
may, pursuant to clause 2(b) of rule XVIII, declare the House resolved into the 
Committee of the Whole House on the state of the Union for consideration of the 
bill (H.R. 5016) making appropriations for financial services and general 
government for the fiscal year ending September 30, 2015, and for other 
purposes. The first reading of the bill shall be dispensed with. All points of 
order against consideration of the bill are waived. General debate shall be 
confined to the bill and shall not exceed one hour equally divided and 
controlled by the chair and ranking minority member of the Committee on 
Appropriations. After general debate the bill shall be considered for amendment 
under the five-minute rule. Points of order against provisions in the bill for 
failure to comply with clause 2 or clause 5(a) of rule XXI are waived except for 
section 627.
     (b) During consideration of the bill for amendment--
            (1) each amendment, other than amendments provided for in paragraph 
        (2), shall be debatable for 10 minutes equally divided and controlled by 
        the proponent and an opponent and shall not be subject to amendment 
        except as provided in paragraph (2);
            (2) no pro forma amendment shall be in order except that the chair 
        and ranking minority member of the Committee on Appropriations or their 
        respective designees may offer up to 10 pro forma amendments each at any 
        point for the purpose of debate; and
            (3) the chair of the Committee of the Whole may accord priority in 
        recognition on the basis of whether the Member offering an amendment has 
        caused it to be printed in the portion of the Congressional Record 
        designated for that purpose in clause 8 of rule XVIII. Amendments so 
        printed shall be considered as read.
    (c) When the committee rises and reports the bill back to the House with a 
recommendation that the bill do pass, the previous question shall be considered 
as ordered on the bill and amendments thereto to final passage without 
intervening motion except one motion to recommit with or without instructions.
    Sec. 2.  Upon adoption of this resolution it shall be in order to consider 
in the House the bill (H.R. 4718) to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to 
modify and make permanent bonus depreciation. All points of order against 
consideration of the bill are waived. The amendment in the nature of a 
substitute recommended by the Committee on Ways and Means now printed in the 
bill, modified by the amendment printed in the report of the Committee on Rules 
accompanying this resolution, shall be considered as adopted. The bill, as 
amended, shall be considered as read. All points of order against provisions in 
the bill, as amended, are waived. The previous question shall be considered as 
ordered on the bill, as amended, and on any amendment thereto to final passage 
without intervening motion except: (1) one hour of debate equally divided and 
controlled by the chair and ranking minority member of the Committee on Ways and 
Means; and (2) one motion to recommit with or without instructions.
            Attest:

                                                                          Clerk.
