
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 4456 Introduced in House (IH)]

113th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                H. R. 4456

To determine the feasibility of additional agreements for long-term use 
 of existing or expanded non-Federal storage and conveyance facilities 
to augment Federal water supply, ecosystem, and operational flexibility 
           benefits in certain areas, and for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                             April 10, 2014

Mr. George Miller of California (for himself, Mr. Costa, Mr. McNerney, 
 Ms. Matsui, Mr. Garamendi, Mr. Thompson of California, Ms. Eshoo, Mr. 
  Huffman, Mrs. Napolitano, and Mr. Waxman) introduced the following 
     bill; which was referred to the Committee on Natural Resources

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
To determine the feasibility of additional agreements for long-term use 
 of existing or expanded non-Federal storage and conveyance facilities 
to augment Federal water supply, ecosystem, and operational flexibility 
           benefits in certain areas, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. PILOT PROGRAM.

    In order to determine the feasibility of agreements for long-term 
use of existing or expanded non-Federal storage and conveyance 
facilities to augment Federal water supply, ecosystem, and operational 
flexibility benefits, not later than 6 months after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of the Interior shall enter into 
cooperative agreements with non-Federal entities to provide replacement 
water supplies for drought relief for Central Valley Project 
contractors, units of the National Wildlife Refuge System, State 
wildlife areas and private wetland area. Agreements under this section 
shall--
            (1) include the purchase of storage capacity in non-Federal 
        facilities from willing sellers; and
            (2) provide reimbursement for the temporary use of 
        available capacity in existing above-ground, off-stream 
        storage, and associated conveyance facilities owned by local 
        water agencies.

SEC. 2. REPORT.

    Not later than 2 years after the date of the enactment of this Act, 
the Secretary of the Interior shall complete a report on the 
feasibility of the agreements described in section 1 for long-term use 
of existing or expanded non-Federal storage and conveyance facilities 
to augment Federal water supply, ecosystem, and operational flexibility 
benefits. The report shall be made available to the Chief of the 
National Wildlife Refuge System and Central Valley Project contractors.
                                 <all>
