
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H. Res. 568 Reported in House (RH)]

                                                 House Calendar No. 103
113th CONGRESS
  2d Session
H. RES. 568

                          [Report No. 113-439]

     Relating to the consideration of House Report 113-415 and an 
    accompanying resolution, and providing for consideration of the 
 resolution (H. Res. 565) calling on Attorney General Eric H. Holder, 
   Jr., to appoint a special counsel to investigate the targeting of 
     conservative nonprofit groups by the Internal Revenue Service.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                              May 6, 2014

    Mr. Nugent, from the Committee on Rules, reported the following 
resolution; which was referred to the House Calendar and ordered to be 
                                printed

_______________________________________________________________________

                               RESOLUTION


 
     Relating to the consideration of House Report 113-415 and an 
    accompanying resolution, and providing for consideration of the 
 resolution (H. Res. 565) calling on Attorney General Eric H. Holder, 
   Jr., to appoint a special counsel to investigate the targeting of 
     conservative nonprofit groups by the Internal Revenue Service.

    Resolved, That if House Report 113-415 is called up by direction of 
the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform: (a) all points of 
order against the report are waived and the report shall be considered 
as read; and
     (b)(1) an accompanying resolution offered by direction of the 
Committee on Oversight and Government Reform shall be considered as 
read and shall not be subject to a point of order; and
    (2) the previous question shall be considered as ordered on such 
resolution to adoption without intervening motion or demand for 
division of the question except: (i) 50 minutes of debate equally 
divided and controlled by the chair and ranking minority member of the 
Committee on Oversight and Government Reform or their respective 
designees; (ii) after conclusion of debate one motion to refer if 
offered by Representative Cummings of Maryland or his designee which 
shall be separately debatable for 10 minutes equally divided and 
controlled by the proponent and an opponent; and (iii) one motion to 
recommit with or without instructions.
    Sec. 2.  Upon adoption of this resolution it shall be in order 
without intervention of any point of order to consider in the House the 
resolution (H. Res. 565) calling on Attorney General Eric H. Holder, 
Jr., to appoint a special counsel to investigate the targeting of 
conservative nonprofit groups by the Internal Revenue Service. The 
resolution shall be considered as read. The previous question shall be 
considered as ordered on the resolution to adoption without intervening 
motion or demand for division of the question except 40 minutes of 
debate equally divided and controlled by the chair and ranking minority 
member of the Committee on the Judiciary.
                                                 House Calendar No. 103

113th CONGRESS

  2d Session

                              H. RES. 568

                          [Report No. 113-439]

_______________________________________________________________________

                               RESOLUTION

     Relating to the consideration of House Report 113-415 and an 
    accompanying resolution, and providing for consideration of the 
 resolution (H. Res. 565) calling on Attorney General Eric H. Holder, 
   Jr., to appoint a special counsel to investigate the targeting of 
     conservative nonprofit groups by the Internal Revenue Service.

_______________________________________________________________________

                              May 6, 2014

        Referred to the House Calendar and ordered to be printed
