
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 4562 Referred in Senate (RFS)]

113th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                H. R. 4562


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                             July 23, 2014

   Received; read twice and referred to the Committee on Energy and 
                           Natural Resources

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 AN ACT


 
     To authorize early repayment of obligations to the Bureau of 
 Reclamation within the Northport Irrigation District in the State of 
                               Nebraska.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. EARLY REPAYMENT OF CONSTRUCTION COSTS.

    (a) In General.--Notwithstanding section 213 of the Reclamation 
Reform Act of 1982 (43 U.S.C. 390mm), any landowner within the 
Northport Irrigation District in the State of Nebraska (referred to in 
this section as the ``District'') may repay, at any time, the 
construction costs of project facilities allocated to the landowner's 
land within the District.
    (b) Applicability of Full-Cost Pricing Limitations.--On discharge, 
in full, of the obligation for repayment of all construction costs 
described in subsection (a) that are allocated to all land the 
landowner owns in the District in question, the parcels of land shall 
not be subject to the ownership and full-cost pricing limitations under 
Federal reclamation law (the Act of June 17, 1902, 32 Stat. 388, 
chapter 1093), and Acts supplemental to and amendatory of that Act (43 
U.S.C. 371 et seq.), including the Reclamation Reform Act of 1982 (13 
U.S.C. 390aa et seq.).
    (c) Certification.--On request of a landowner that has repaid, in 
full, the construction costs described in subsection (a), the Secretary 
of the Interior shall provide to the landowner a certificate described 
in section 213(b)(1) of the Reclamation Reform Act of 1982 (43 U.S.C. 
390mm(b)(1)).
    (d) Effect.--Nothing in this section--
            (1) modifies any contractual rights under, or amends or 
        reopens, the reclamation contract between the District and the 
        United States; or
            (2) modifies any rights, obligations, or relationships 
        between the District and landowners in the District under 
        Nebraska State law.

            Passed the House of Representatives July 22, 2014.

            Attest:

                                                 KAREN L. HAAS,

                                                                 Clerk.
