
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 3429 Introduced in House (IH)]

113th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                H. R. 3429

  To protect personal and financial information by requiring certain 
 certifications by entities awarded funds under the Patient Protection 
  and Affordable Care Act for the operation of a Navigator program or 
                   certain other Exchange activities.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                            October 30, 2013

  Mrs. McMorris Rodgers (for herself and Mr. Lankford) introduced the 
   following bill; which was referred to the Committee on Energy and 
                                Commerce

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
  To protect personal and financial information by requiring certain 
 certifications by entities awarded funds under the Patient Protection 
  and Affordable Care Act for the operation of a Navigator program or 
                   certain other Exchange activities.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. PROTECTING PERSONAL AND FINANCIAL INFORMATION BY REQUIRING 
              CERTAIN CERTIFICATIONS BY ENTITIES AWARDED ACA FUNDS FOR 
              THE OPERATION OF A NAVIGATOR PROGRAM OR CERTAIN OTHER 
              EXCHANGE ACTIVITIES.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary of Health and Human Services (in 
this section referred to as the ``Secretary'') shall require that in 
the case of an entity designated by or awarded funds by an Exchange or 
the Secretary for the operation of a Navigator program under subsection 
(i) of section 1311 of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act 
(42 U.S.C. 18031) or for carrying out activities to facilitate 
enrollment in qualified health plans or to advocate for enrolling 
certain populations in qualified health plans, such entity shall 
certify to the Secretary (and periodically recertify during the period 
of such designation or award) the following:
            (1) The entity has in place appropriate policies and 
        safeguards to protect any personally identifiable information 
        and financial information collected or used by such entity with 
        respect to the operation of such program or with respect to 
        carrying out such activities, as applicable.
            (2) The entity has in place appropriate policies 
        prohibiting the employment by such entity, with respect to the 
        operation of such program or with respect to carrying out such 
        activities, as applicable, of any individual who has been 
        convicted of--
                    (A) an offense under section 1028 or 1028A of title 
                18, United States Code, or any similar crime pertaining 
                to identity theft under the laws of a State; or
                    (B) a criminal felony involving dishonesty or a 
                breach of trust described in section 1033(e) of title 
                18, United States Code, or any similar criminal felony 
                pertaining to dishonesty or a breach of trust under the 
                laws of a State.
    (b) Enforcement.--If the Secretary determines, after notice and 
opportunity to appeal, that an entity described in subsection (a) is in 
violation of paragraph (1) or (2) of such subsection, the Secretary 
shall disqualify the entity from eligibility for any designation 
described in such subsection and from receipt of any funds awarded, 
after the date of such determination, under section 1311 of the Patient 
Protection and Affordable Care Act (42 U.S.C. 18031) for a purpose 
described in such subsection.
    (c) Certification to Congress.--The Secretary shall annually 
certify to Congress that all entities receiving a designation described 
in subsection (a) or awarded funds under section 1311 of the Patient 
Protection and Affordable Care Act (42 U.S.C. 18031) for the year 
involved for a purpose described in such subsection are in compliance 
with paragraphs (1) and (2) of such subsection.
    (d) Effective Date.--The provisions of this section shall apply to 
designations made and funds awarded before, on, or after the date of 
the enactment of this Act.
                                 <all>
