
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H. Res. 370 Engrossed in House (EH)]

H. Res. 370

                In the House of Representatives, U. S.,

                                                       October 2, 2013.
    Resolved, That upon adoption of this resolution it shall be in order to 
consider in the House any joint resolution specified in section 2 of this 
resolution. All points of order against consideration of each such joint 
resolution are waived. Each such joint resolution shall be considered as read. 
All points of order against provisions in each such joint resolution are waived. 
The previous question shall be considered as ordered on each such joint 
resolution and on any amendment thereto to final passage without intervening 
motion except: (1) 30 minutes of debate equally divided and controlled by the 
chair and ranking minority member of the Committee on Appropriations; and (2) 
one motion to recommit.
    Sec. 2.  The joint resolutions referred to in the first section of this 
resolution are as follows:
     (a) The joint resolution (H.J. Res. 70) making continuing appropriations 
for National Park Service operations, the Smithsonian Institution, the National 
Gallery of Art, and the United States Holocaust Memorial Museum for fiscal year 
2014, and for other purposes.
    (b) The joint resolution (H.J. Res. 71) making continuing appropriations of 
local funds of the District of Columbia for fiscal year 2014.
    (c) The joint resolution (H.J. Res. 72) making continuing appropriations for 
veterans benefits for fiscal year 2014, and for other purposes.
    (d) The joint resolution (H.J. Res. 73) making continuing appropriations for 
the National Institutes of Health for fiscal year 2014, and for other purposes.
    Sec. 3.  Upon adoption of this resolution it shall be in order to consider 
in the House the bill (H.R. 3230) making continuing appropriations during a 
Government shutdown to provide pay and allowances to members of the reserve 
components of the Armed Forces who perform inactive-duty training during such 
period. All points of order against consideration of the bill are waived. The 
bill shall be considered as read. All points of order against provisions in the 
bill are waived. The previous question shall be considered as ordered on the 
bill and on any amendment thereto to final passage without intervening motion 
except: (1) 30 minutes of debate equally divided and controlled by the chair and 
ranking minority member of the Committee on Appropriations; and (2) one motion 
to recommit.
    Sec. 4.  It shall be in order at any time through the calendar day of 
October 6, 2013, for the Speaker to entertain motions that the House suspend the 
rules as though under clause 1 of rule XV. The Speaker or his designee shall 
consult with the Minority Leader or her designee on the designation of any 
matter for consideration pursuant to this section.
            Attest:

                                                                          Clerk.
