
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 5795 Introduced in House (IH)]

113th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                H. R. 5795

To seek the establishment of and contributions to an International Fund 
                     for Israeli-Palestinian Peace.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                            December 4, 2014

Mr. Crowley (for himself and Mr. Fortenberry) introduced the following 
      bill; which was referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
To seek the establishment of and contributions to an International Fund 
                     for Israeli-Palestinian Peace.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``International Fund for Israeli-
Palestinian Peace Authorization Act of 2014''.

SEC. 2. FINDINGS AND PURPOSES.

    (a) Findings.--Congress finds the following:
            (1) Peaceful co-existence in the Middle East between 
        Israelis and Palestinians, and between Muslims, Christians, 
        Jews, and those of all backgrounds is in the interests of the 
        United States, Israel, the Palestinian people, and the world.
            (2) While the United States and its international allies 
        continue to support diplomatic and political negotiations 
        between the representatives of the parties to the conflict as 
        well as others, in the long run such efforts require broad 
        popular support among peoples in order to succeed. In order to 
        achieve lasting peace in the region, the people who live there 
        must, over time, sustain any potential high-level agreements.
            (3) Through many independent individual and nongovernmental 
        activities, tens of thousands of peoples of different 
        backgrounds are already working together to build better 
        relations between peoples, through people-to-people coexistence 
        and trust-building measures, activities, and other cooperative 
        efforts.
            (4) By working cooperatively on shared goals and addressing 
        mutual understanding, participants in such activities, 
        including youth, can come to reject violence and understand the 
        promise of peaceful coexistence.
            (5) Through support for people-to-people exchanges in the 
        region and joint economic initiatives, millions of ordinary 
        citizens affected by this conflict can assist in building 
        support for lasting peace.
            (6) Working together, the United States, countries around 
        the world, and the private sector can help sustain support for 
        peace with the establishment and funding of an independent 
        International Fund for Israeli-Palestinian Peace (referred to 
        in this Act as the ``International Fund''), to promote and 
        support contact, cooperation, dialogue, shared community 
        building, peaceful coexistence, joint economic development, and 
        reconciliation between Israelis and Palestinians.
            (7) United States and international support for grassroots 
        people-to-people efforts can help serve as an antidote to false 
        propaganda by terrorist groups.
            (8) The International Fund shall serve as a coordinating 
        body offering expertise and support, adhering to best practices 
        for governance, transparency, and accountability. The 
        International Fund will be an ongoing presence and catalyst for 
        rejecting violence and building broad public support for 
        sustaining peace in the region. The International Fund is not 
        intended to be a political forum, but a grant-making body to 
        facilitate enduring people-to-people relationships.
    (b) Purposes.--The purposes of this Act are as follows:
            (1) To urge the President to make every effort, in 
        conjunction with the Government of Israel, the Palestinian 
        Authority, regional governments, and the international 
        community to establish a non-political, mutually acceptable 
        International Fund to promote and support contact, cooperation, 
        dialogue, shared community building, peaceful coexistence, 
        joint economic development, and reconciliation between Israelis 
        and Palestinians.
            (2) To provide for United States contributions to consist 
        of amounts made available to carry out chapter 4 of part II of 
        the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 2346 et seq. 
        (relating to the Economic Support Fund)) for payment to the 
        International Fund to carry out the activities described in 
        paragraph (1).

SEC. 3. ESTABLISHMENT OF INTERNATIONAL FUND FOR ISRAELI-PALESTINIAN 
              PEACE.

    Congress urges the President to make every effort, in conjunction 
with the Government of Israel, the Palestinian Authority, and the 
international community, to establish an International Fund for 
Israeli-Palestinian Peace to carry out the purposes described in 
section 2(b).

SEC. 4. UNITED STATES CONTRIBUTIONS TO THE INTERNATIONAL FUND FOR 
              ISRAELI-PALESTINIAN PEACE.

    (a) In General.--Of the amounts made available for each of fiscal 
years 2015 through 2019 to carry out chapter 4 of part II of the 
Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 2346 et seq. (relating to the 
Economic Support Fund)), $50,000,000 is authorized to be appropriated 
for United States contributions to the International Fund.
    (b) Additional Authorities.--Amounts authorized to be appropriated 
pursuant to subsection (a)--
            (1) are in addition to amounts otherwise authorized to be 
        appropriated for such purposes; and
            (2) are authorized to remain available until expended.

SEC. 5. CONDITIONS AND UNDERSTANDINGS RELATING TO INTERNATIONAL FUND 
              FOR ISRAELI-PALESTINIAN PEACE.

    (a) Support and Promotion of Purposes.--United States contributions 
to the International Fund provided for in section 4 may be used only to 
support and promote the purposes described in section 2(b).
    (b) Additional Restrictions.--The restrictions described in section 
531(e) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 2346(e)) shall 
apply to United States contributions to the International Fund provided 
for in section 4 to the same extent and in the same manner as such 
restrictions apply to amounts made available to carry out chapter 4 of 
part II of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961.
    (c) United States Representation on Board of International Fund.--
The United States shall provide two representatives to the Advisory 
Board of the International Fund with specialized expertise in promoting 
contact, cooperation, dialogue, shared community building, peaceful 
coexistence, joint economic development, and reconciliation between 
Israelis and Palestinians. The United States representatives on the 
Advisory Board of the International Fund shall be from different 
political parties, and in making appointments, members of different 
political parties shall be appointed alternately as nearly as may be 
practicable.

SEC. 6. ANNUAL REPORT.

    (a) In General.--At the end of each fiscal year in which the United 
States Government makes any contribution to the International Fund in 
accordance with this Act, the President shall submit to Congress a 
written report on the extent to which the International Fund and United 
States contributions to the International Fund have contributed to 
promoting and supporting contact, cooperation, dialogue, shared 
community building, peaceful coexistence, joint economic development, 
and reconciliation between Israelis and Palestinians.
    (b) Matters To Be Included.--Such report shall also include the 
following:
            (1) Contributions pledged to, contributions (including 
        donations from the private sector) received by, and projects 
        funded by the International Fund, and the mechanisms 
        established for transparency and accountability in the grant-
        making process.
            (2) A description of the International Fund's operations, 
        activities, budget, receipts, and expenditures for the 
        preceding 12-month period, including an audited report of the 
        International Fund's finances, including statements of 
        financial position, operations, and cash flows, in accordance 
        with the United States generally accepted government auditing 
        standards as prescribed by the Comptroller General.
                                 <all>
