
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[S. Con. Res. 35 Enrolled Bill (ENR)]

        S.Con.Res.35
                                        Agreed to April 10, 2014        

                     One Hundred Thirteenth Congress

                                 of the

                        United States of America


                          AT THE SECOND SESSION

           Begun and held at the City of Washington on Friday,
           the third day of January, two thousand and fourteen


                          Concurrent Resolution

    Resolved by the Senate (the House of Representatives concurring), 
That when the Senate recesses or adjourns on any day from Thursday, 
April 10, 2014, through Thursday, April 24, 2014, on a motion offered 
pursuant to this concurrent resolution by its Majority Leader or his 
designee, it stand recessed or adjourned until 12:00 noon on Monday, 
April 28, 2014, or such other time on that day as may be specified by 
its Majority Leader or his designee in the motion to recess or adjourn, 
or until the time of any reassembly pursuant to section 2 of this 
concurrent resolution, whichever occurs first; and that when the House 
adjourns on any legislative day from Thursday, April 10, 2014, through 
Thursday, April 24, 2014, on a motion offered pursuant to this 
concurrent resolution by its Majority Leader or his designee, it stand 
adjourned until 2:00 p.m. on Monday, April 28, 2014, or until the time 
of any reassembly pursuant to section 3 of this concurrent resolution, 
whichever occurs first.
    Sec. 2.  (a) The Majority Leader of the Senate or his designee, 
after consultation with the Minority Leader of the Senate, shall notify 
the Members of the Senate to reassemble at such place and time he may 
designate if, in his opinion, the public interest shall warrant it.
     (b) After reassembling pursuant to subsection (a), when the Senate 
adjourns on a motion offered pursuant to this subsection by its 
Majority Leader or his designee, the Senate shall again stand adjourned 
pursuant to the first section of this concurrent resolution.
    Sec. 3.  (a) The Speaker of his designee, after consultation with 
the Minority Leader of the House, shall notify Members of the House to 
reassemble at such place and time he may designate if, in his opinion, 
the public interest shall warrant it.
     (b) After reassembling pursuant to subsection (a), when the House 
adjourns on a motion offered pursuant to this subsection by its 
Majority Leader or his designee, the House shall again stand adjourned 
pursuant to the first section of this concurrent resolution.
Attest:

                                               Secretary of the Senate.
Attest:

                                 Clerk of the House of Representatives.
