
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 1168 Reported in House (RH)]

                                                 Union Calendar No. 160
113th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                H. R. 1168

                          [Report No. 113-220]

 To direct the Secretary of the Interior, acting through the Bureau of 
 Land Management, to convey to the City of Carlin, Nevada, in exchange 
for consideration, all right, title, and interest of the United States, 
to any Federal land within that city that is under the jurisdiction of 
                  that agency, and for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                             March 14, 2013

  Mr. Amodei introduced the following bill; which was referred to the 
                     Committee on Natural Resources

                           September 20, 2013

  Reported with an amendment, committed to the Committee of the Whole 
       House on the State of the Union, and ordered to be printed
 [Strike out all after the enacting clause and insert the part printed 
                               in italic]
 [For text of introduced bill, see copy of bill as introduced on March 
                               14, 2013]


_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
 To direct the Secretary of the Interior, acting through the Bureau of 
 Land Management, to convey to the City of Carlin, Nevada, in exchange 
for consideration, all right, title, and interest of the United States, 
to any Federal land within that city that is under the jurisdiction of 
                  that agency, and for other purposes.


 


    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. CONVEYANCE OF CERTAIN FEDERAL LAND TO CITY OF CARLIN, 
              NEVADA.

    (a) Definitions.--
            (1) City.--The term ``City'' means the City of Carlin, 
        Nevada.
            (2) Federal land.--The term ``Federal land'' means the 
        approximately 1,400 acres of land located in the City of 
        Carlin, Nevada, that is identified on the map as ``Carlin 
        Selected Parcels''.
            (3) Map.--The term ``map'' means the map entitled 
        ``Proposed Carlin, Nevada Land Sales'' map dated June 6, 2013.
    (b) Conveyance Required.--Subject to valid existing rights and not 
later than 180 days after the date on which the Secretary of the 
Interior receives an offer from the City to purchase the Federal land, 
the Secretary, acting through the Bureau of Land Management, shall 
convey, notwithstanding the land use planning requirements of sections 
202 and 203 of the Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43 
U.S.C. 1712, 1713), to the City, in exchange for consideration in an 
amount equal to the fair market value of the Federal land, all right, 
title, and interest of the United States, to such Federal land.
    (c) Appraisal To Determine Fair Market Value.--The Secretary shall 
determine the fair market value of the Federal land to be conveyed--
            (1) in accordance with the Federal Land Policy and 
        Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.); and
            (2) based on an appraisal that is conducted in accordance 
        with nationally recognized appraisal standards, including--
                    (A) the Uniform Appraisal Standards for Federal 
                Land Acquisition; and
                    (B) the Uniform Standards of Professional Appraisal 
                Practice.
    (d) Availability of Map.--The map shall be on file and available 
for public inspection in the appropriate offices of the Bureau of Land 
Management.
    (e) Costs.--The City shall, at closing for the conveyance 
authorized under subsection (b), pay or reimburse the Secretary, as 
appropriate, for the reasonable transaction and administrative 
personnel costs associated with the conveyance authorized under such 
subsection, including the costs of appraisal, title searches, maps, and 
boundary and cadastral surveys.
    (f) Conveyance Not a Major Federal Action.--A conveyance or 
combination of conveyances made under this section shall not be 
considered a major Federal action for purposes of section 102(2) of the 
National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 4332(2)).
    (g) Release of United States.--Upon making the conveyance under 
subsection (b), notwithstanding any other provision of law, the United 
States is released from any and all liabilities or claims of any kind 
or nature arising from the presence, release, or threat of release of 
any hazardous substance, pollutant, contaminant, petroleum product (or 
derivative of a petroleum product of any kind), solid waste, mine 
materials or mining related features (including tailings, overburden, 
waste rock, mill remnants, pits, or other hazards resulting from the 
presence of mining related features) on the Federal land in existence 
on or before the date of the conveyance.
    (h) Withdrawal.--Subject to valid existing rights, the Federal land 
identified for conveyance shall be withdrawn from all forms of--
            (1) entry, appropriation, or disposal under the public land 
        laws;
            (2) location, entry, and patent under the mining laws; and
            (3) disposition under the mineral leasing, mineral 
        materials and geothermal leasing laws.
                                                 Union Calendar No. 160

113th CONGRESS

  1st Session

                               H. R. 1168

                          [Report No. 113-220]

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL

 To direct the Secretary of the Interior, acting through the Bureau of 
 Land Management, to convey to the City of Carlin, Nevada, in exchange 
for consideration, all right, title, and interest of the United States, 
to any Federal land within that city that is under the jurisdiction of 
                  that agency, and for other purposes.

_______________________________________________________________________

                           September 20, 2013

  Reported with an amendment, committed to the Committee of the Whole 
       House on the State of the Union, and ordered to be printed
