
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H. Res. 66 Engrossed in House (EH)]

H. Res. 66

                In the House of Representatives, U. S.,

                                                     February 14, 2013.
    Resolved, That upon the adoption of this resolution it shall be in order to 
consider in the House the bill (H.R. 273) to eliminate the 2013 statutory pay 
adjustment for Federal employees. All points of order against consideration of 
the bill are waived. The bill shall be considered as read. All points of order 
against provisions in the bill are waived. The previous question shall be 
considered as ordered on the bill and on any amendment thereto to final passage 
without intervening motion except: (1) one hour of debate equally divided and 
controlled by the chair and ranking minority member of the Committee on 
Oversight and Government Reform; and (2) one motion to recommit.
    Sec. 2.  During any recess or adjournment of not more than three days, if in 
the opinion of the Speaker the public interest so warrants, then the Speaker or 
his designee, after consultation with the Minority Leader, may reconvene the 
House at a time other than that previously appointed, within the limits of 
clause 4, section 5, article I of the Constitution, and notify Members 
accordingly.
    Sec. 3.  It shall be in order at any time through the legislative day of 
February 15, 2013, for the Speaker to entertain motions that the House suspend 
the rules, as though under clause 1 of rule XV, relating to a measure condemning 
the government of North Korea and its February 12, 2013, test of a nuclear 
device.
    Sec. 4.  On any legislative day during the period from February 16, 2013, 
through February 22, 2013--
     (a) the Journal of the proceedings of the previous day shall be considered 
as approved; and
    (b) the Chair may at any time declare the House adjourned to meet at a date 
and time, within the limits of clause 4, section 5, article I of the 
Constitution, to be announced by the Chair in declaring the adjournment.
    Sec. 5.  The Speaker may appoint Members to perform the duties of the Chair 
for the duration of the period addressed by section 4 of this resolution as 
though under clause 8(a) of rule I.
            Attest:

                                                                          Clerk.
