
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 885 Reported in Senate (RS)]

                                                       Calendar No. 642
113th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                H. R. 885

                          [Report No. 113-302]


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                              June 4, 2013

   Received; read twice and referred to the Committee on Energy and 
                           Natural Resources

                           December 10, 2014

              Reported by Ms. Landrieu, without amendment

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 AN ACT


 
To expand the boundary of the San Antonio Missions National Historical 
                     Park, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``San Antonio Missions National 
Historical Park Boundary Expansion Act of 2013''.

SEC. 2. BOUNDARY EXPANSION.

    Section 201(a) of Public Law 95-629 (16 U.S.C. 410ee(a)) is 
amended--
            (1) by striking ``In order'' and inserting ``(1) In 
        order'';
            (2) by striking ``The park shall also'' and inserting the 
        following:
    ``(2) The park shall also'';
            (3) by striking ``After advising the'' and inserting the 
        following:
    ``(5) After advising the''.
            (4) by inserting after paragraph (2) (as so designated by 
        paragraph (2)) the following:
    ``(3) The boundary of the park is further modified to include 
approximately 137 acres, as depicted on the map titled `San Antonio 
Missions National Historical Park Proposed Boundary Addition', numbered 
472/113,006A, and dated June 2012. The map shall be on file and 
available for inspection in the appropriate offices of the National 
Park Service, U.S. Department of the Interior.
    ``(4) The Secretary may not acquire by condemnation any land or 
interest in land within the boundaries of the park. The Secretary is 
authorized to acquire land and interests in land that are within the 
boundaries of the park pursuant to paragraph (3) by donation or 
exchange only (and in the case of an exchange, no payment may be made 
by the Secretary to any landowner). No private property or non-Federal 
public property shall be included within the boundaries of the park 
without the written consent of the owner of such property. Nothing in 
this Act, the establishment of the park, or the management plan of the 
park shall be construed to create buffer zones outside of the park. 
That an activity or use can be seen or heard from within the park shall 
not preclude the conduct of that activity or use outside the park.''.
                                                       Calendar No. 642

113th CONGRESS

  2d Session

                               H. R. 885

                          [Report No. 113-302]

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 AN ACT

To expand the boundary of the San Antonio Missions National Historical 
                     Park, and for other purposes.

_______________________________________________________________________

                           December 10, 2014

                       Reported without amendment
