
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 2502 Introduced in House (IH)]

113th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                H. R. 2502

To amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to extend the energy credit 
                for certain property under construction.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                             June 25, 2013

  Mr. Thompson of California introduced the following bill; which was 
              referred to the Committee on Ways and Means

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
To amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to extend the energy credit 
                for certain property under construction.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Renewable Energy Parity Act of 
2013''.

SEC. 2. EXTENSION OF ENERGY CREDIT FOR CERTAIN PROPERTY UNDER 
              CONSTRUCTION.

    (a) Solar Energy Property.--Paragraphs (2)(A)(i)(II) and (3)(A)(ii) 
of section 48(a) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 are each amended 
by striking ``periods ending'' and inserting ``property the 
construction of which begins''.
    (b) Qualified Fuel Cell Property.--Section 48(c)(1)(D) of such Code 
is amended by striking ``for any period after December 31, 2016'' and 
inserting ``the construction of which does not begin before January 1, 
2017''.
    (c) Qualified Microturbine Property.--Section 48(c)(2)(D) of such 
Code is amended by striking ``for any period after December 31, 2016'' 
and inserting ``the construction of which does not begin before January 
1, 2017''.
    (d) Combined Heat and Power System Property.--Section 
48(c)(3)(A)(iv) of such Code is amended by striking ``which is placed 
in service'' and inserting ``construction of which begins''.
    (e) Qualified Small Wind Energy Property.--Section 48(c)(4)(C) of 
such Code is amended by striking ``for any period after December 31, 
2016'' and inserting ``the construction of which does not begin before 
January 1, 2017''.
    (f) Thermal Energy Property.--Section 48(a)(3)(A)(vii) of such Code 
is amended by striking ``periods ending'' and inserting ``property the 
construction of which begins''.
    (g) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this section shall take 
effect on the date of the enactment of this Act.
                                 <all>
