
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 235 Referred in Senate (RFS)]

113th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                H. R. 235


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                           February 13, 2013

     Received; read twice and referred to the Committee on Health, 
                     Education, Labor, and Pensions

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 AN ACT


 
 To amend the Public Health Service Act to provide grants to States to 
streamline State requirements and procedures for veterans with military 
    emergency medical training to become civilian emergency medical 
                              technicians.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Veteran Emergency Medical Technician 
Support Act of 2013''.

SEC. 2. ASSISTING VETERANS WITH MILITARY EMERGENCY MEDICAL TRAINING TO 
              MEET REQUIREMENTS FOR BECOMING CIVILIAN EMERGENCY MEDICAL 
              TECHNICIANS.

    (a) In General.--Part B of title III of the Public Health Service 
Act (42 U.S.C. 243 et seq.) is amended by inserting after section 314 
the following:

``SEC. 315. ASSISTING VETERANS WITH MILITARY EMERGENCY MEDICAL TRAINING 
              TO MEET REQUIREMENTS FOR BECOMING CIVILIAN EMERGENCY 
              MEDICAL TECHNICIANS.

    ``(a) Program.--The Secretary shall establish a program consisting 
of awarding demonstration grants to States to streamline State 
requirements and procedures in order to assist veterans who completed 
military emergency medical technician training while serving in the 
Armed Forces of the United States to meet certification, licensure, and 
other requirements applicable to becoming an emergency medical 
technician in the State.
    ``(b) Use of Funds.--Amounts received as a demonstration grant 
under this section shall be used to prepare and implement a plan to 
streamline State requirements and procedures as described in subsection 
(a), including by--
            ``(1) determining the extent to which the requirements for 
        the education, training, and skill level of emergency medical 
        technicians in the State are equivalent to requirements for the 
        education, training, and skill level of military emergency 
        medical technicians; and
            ``(2) identifying methods, such as waivers, for military 
        emergency medical technicians to forego or meet any such 
        equivalent State requirements.
    ``(c) Eligibility.--To be eligible for a grant under this section, 
a State shall demonstrate that the State has a shortage of emergency 
medical technicians.
    ``(d) Report.--The Secretary shall submit to the Congress an annual 
report on the program under this section.
    ``(e) Funding.--Of the amount authorized by section 751(j)(1) to be 
appropriated to carry out section 751 for fiscal year 2014, there is 
authorized to be appropriated to carry out this section $1,000,000 for 
the period of fiscal years 2014 through 2018.''.
    (b) Conforming Amendment.--Section 751(j)(1) of the Public Health 
Service Act (42 U.S.C. 294a(j)(1)) is amended by striking ``There is 
authorized to be appropriated'' and inserting ``Subject to section 
315(e), there is authorized to be appropriated''.

            Passed the House of Representatives February 12, 2013.

            Attest:

                                                 KAREN L. HAAS,

                                                                 Clerk.
