
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 4868 Introduced in House (IH)]

113th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                H. R. 4868

To expand the Moving to Work demonstration program of the Department of 
         Housing and Urban Development, and for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                             June 12, 2014

  Mr. Stivers (for himself and Mrs. Beatty) introduced the following 
    bill; which was referred to the Committee on Financial Services

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
To expand the Moving to Work demonstration program of the Department of 
         Housing and Urban Development, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Moving to Work Expansion Act of 
2014''.

SEC. 2. EXPANSION OF DEMONSTRATION PROGRAM.

    (a) Increase in Authorized Number of PHAs.--The number of public 
housing agencies authorized to participate in the Moving-to-Work 
demonstration program authorized under section 204 of the Departments 
of Veterans Affairs and Housing and Urban Development, and Independent 
Agencies Appropriations Act, 1996 (Public Law 104-134; 42 U.S.C. 1437f 
note; 110 Stat. 1321-281) is hereby increased by 10 over the number of 
agencies authorized to participate in such program as of the date of 
the enactment of this Act.
    (b) Eligibility.--A public housing agency may be selected for 
participation pursuant to subsection (a) in the demonstration program 
referred to in such subsection only if the agency administers, in the 
aggregate, 10,000 or more public housing dwelling units and housing 
choice vouchers under section 8(o) of the United States Housing Act of 
1937 (42 U.S.C. 1437f(o)).
    (c) Limitation on Funding.--A public housing agency selected for 
participation pursuant to subsection (a) in the demonstration program 
referred to in such subsection shall not be provided any funding under 
section 8 or 9 of the United States Housing Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C. 
1437f, 1437g) in addition to the funding that such agency otherwise 
would receive absent such participation.
    (d) Reporting of Financial Data.--In addition to other reporting 
requirements, all public housing agencies participating in the 
demonstration program referred to in subsection (a) (whether pursuant 
to such subsection or otherwise) shall report financial data to the 
Department of Housing and Urban Development as the Secretary of Housing 
and Urban Development shall specify to ensure that the effects of 
policy changes in the demonstration programs carried out by such 
agencies can be measured.
                                 <all>
