
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H. Res. 727 Engrossed in House (EH)]

H. Res. 727

                In the House of Representatives, U. S.,

                                                    September 18, 2014.
    Resolved, That upon adoption of this resolution it shall be in order to 
consider in the House the bill (H.R. 2) to remove Federal Government obstacles 
to the production of more domestic energy; to ensure transport of that energy 
reliably to businesses, consumers, and other end users; to lower the cost of 
energy to consumers; to enable manufacturers and other businesses to access 
domestically produced energy affordably and reliably in order to create and 
sustain more secure and well-paying American jobs; and for other purposes. All 
points of order against consideration of the bill are waived. The bill shall be 
considered as read. All points of order against provisions in the bill are 
waived. The previous question shall be considered as ordered on the bill and on 
any amendment thereto to final passage without intervening motion except: (1) 
two hours of debate equally divided and controlled by the chair and ranking 
minority member of the Committee on Natural Resources or their respective 
designees; and (2) one motion to recommit.
    Sec. 2.  Upon adoption of this resolution it shall be in order to consider 
in the House the bill (H.R. 4) to make revisions to Federal law to improve the 
conditions necessary for economic growth and job creation, and for other 
purposes. All points of order against consideration of the bill are waived. The 
bill shall be considered as read. All points of order against provisions in the 
bill are waived. The previous question shall be considered as ordered on the 
bill and on any amendment thereto to final passage without intervening motion 
except: (1) two hours of debate equally divided and controlled by the chair and 
ranking minority member of the Committee on Ways and Means or their respective 
designees; and (2) one motion to recommit.
    Sec. 3.  On any legislative day during the period from September 22, 2014, 
through November 11, 2014,--
     (a) the Journal of the proceedings of the previous day shall be considered 
as approved; and
    (b) the Chair may at any time declare the House adjourned to meet at a date 
and time, within the limits of clause 4, section 5, article I of the 
Constitution, to be announced by the Chair in declaring the adjournment.
    Sec. 4.  The Speaker may appoint Members to perform the duties of the Chair 
for the duration of the period addressed by section 3 of this resolution as 
though under clause 8(a) of rule I.
    Sec. 5.  Each day during the period addressed by section 3 of this 
resolution shall not constitute a calendar day for purposes of section 7 of the 
War Powers Resolution (50 U.S.C. 1546).
    Sec. 6.  Each day during the period addressed by section 3 of this 
resolution shall not constitute a legislative day for purposes of clause 7 of 
rule XIII.
            Attest:

                                                                          Clerk.
