
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[S. 1832 Introduced in Senate (IS)]

113th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                S. 1832

                   For the relief of Esther Karinge.


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                           December 16, 2013

  Mr. Markey introduced the following bill; which was read twice and 
               referred to the Committee on the Judiciary

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
                   For the relief of Esther Karinge.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. PERMANENT RESIDENT STATUS FOR ESTHER KARINGE.

    (a) In General.--Notwithstanding subsections (a) and (b) of section 
201 of the Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1151), Esther 
Karinge shall be eligible for the issuance of an immigrant visa or for 
adjustment of status to that of an alien lawfully admitted for 
permanent residence upon filing an application for issuance of an 
immigrant visa under section 204 of such Act or for adjustment of 
status to lawful permanent resident.
    (b) Adjustment of Status.--If Esther Karinge enters the United 
States before the filing deadline specified in subsection (c)--
            (1) she shall be considered to have entered and remained 
        lawfully in the United States; and
            (2) if otherwise eligible, she shall be eligible for 
        adjustment of status under section 245 of the Immigration and 
        Nationality Act as of the date of the enactment of this Act.
    (c) Deadline for Application and Payment of Fees.--Subsections (a) 
and (b) shall not apply unless the application for issuance of an 
immigrant visa or the application for adjustment of status is filed 
with appropriate fees not later than 2 years after the date of the 
enactment of this Act.
    (d) Reduction of Immigrant Visa Number.--Upon the granting of an 
immigrant visa or lawful permanent residence to Esther Karinge, the 
Secretary of State shall instruct the proper officer to reduce by 1, 
during the current or next following fiscal year--
            (1) the total number of immigrant visas that are made 
        available to natives of the country of Esther's birth under 
        section 203(a) of the Immigration and Nationality Act; or
            (2) the total number of immigrant visas that are made 
        available to natives of the country of Esther's birth under 
        section 202(e) of such Act, if applicable.
    (e) Denial of Preferential Immigration Treatment for Certain 
Relatives.--The natural parents, brothers, and sisters of Esther 
Karinge shall not, by virtue of such relationship, be accorded any 
right, privilege, or status under the Immigration and Nationality Act 
(8 U.S.C. 1101 et seq.).
                                 <all>
