
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 653 Introduced in House (IH)]

113th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                H. R. 653

   To direct the Election Assistance Commission to carry out a pilot 
    program under which the Commission shall provide funds to local 
  educational agencies for initiatives to provide voter registration 
      information to secondary school students in the 12th grade.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                           February 13, 2013

   Mr. Al Green of Texas (for himself and Mr. Brady of Pennsylvania) 
 introduced the following bill; which was referred to the Committee on 
                          House Administration

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
   To direct the Election Assistance Commission to carry out a pilot 
    program under which the Commission shall provide funds to local 
  educational agencies for initiatives to provide voter registration 
      information to secondary school students in the 12th grade.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Students Voicing Opinions in Today's 
Elections (VOTE) Act''.

SEC. 2. PILOT PROGRAM FOR PROVIDING VOTER REGISTRATION INFORMATION TO 
              SECONDARY SCHOOL STUDENTS PRIOR TO GRADUATION.

    (a) Pilot Program.--The Election Assistance Commission (hereafter 
in this Act referred to as the ``Commission'') shall carry out a pilot 
program under which the Commission shall provide funds during fiscal 
year 2013 to eligible local educational agencies for initiatives to 
provide information on registering to vote in elections for public 
office to secondary school students in the 12th grade.
    (b) Eligibility.--A local educational agency is eligible to receive 
funds under the pilot program under this Act if the agency submits to 
the Commission, at such time and in such form as the Commission may 
require, an application containing--
            (1) a description of the initiatives the agency intends to 
        carry out with the funds;
            (2) an estimate of the costs associated with such 
        initiatives; and
            (3) such other information and assurances as the Commission 
        may require.
    (c) Consultation With Election Officials.--A local educational 
agency receiving funds under the pilot program shall consult with the 
State and local election officials who are responsible for 
administering elections for public office in the area served by the 
agency in developing the initiatives the agency will carry out with the 
funds.
    (d) Definitions.--In this Act, the terms ``local educational 
agency'' and ``secondary school'' have the meanings given such terms in 
section 9101 of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 (20 
U.S.C. 7801).

SEC. 3. REPORTS.

    (a) Reports by Recipients of Funds.--Not later than the expiration 
of the 90-day period which begins on the date of the receipt of the 
funds, each local educational agency receiving funds under the pilot 
program under this Act shall submit a report to the Commission 
describing the initiatives carried out with the funds and analyzing 
their effectiveness.
    (b) Report by Commission.--Not later than the expiration of the 60-
day period which begins on the date the Commission receives the final 
report submitted by a local educational agency under subsection (a), 
the Commission shall submit a report to Congress on the pilot program 
under this Act.

SEC. 4. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.

    There are authorized to be appropriated such sums as may be 
necessary to carry out this Act.
                                 <all>
