
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 1299 Reported in House (RH)]

                                                  Union Calendar No. 85
113th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                H. R. 1299

                      [Report No. 113-120, Part I]

     To provide for the transfer of certain public land currently 
  administered by the Bureau of Land Management to the administrative 
jurisdiction of the Secretary of the Army for inclusion in White Sands 
           Missile Range, New Mexico, and for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                             March 20, 2013

  Mr. Pearce introduced the following bill; which was referred to the 
  Committee on Natural Resources, and in addition to the Committee on 
   Armed Services, for a period to be subsequently determined by the 
  Speaker, in each case for consideration of such provisions as fall 
           within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned

                             June 24, 2013

   Reported from the Committee on Natural Resources with an amendment
 [Strike out all after the enacting clause and insert the part printed 
                               in italic]

                             June 24, 2013

The Committee on Armed Services discharged; committed to the Committee 
 of the Whole House on the State of the Union and ordered to be printed
 [For text of introduced bill, see copy of bill as introduced on March 
                               20, 2013]


_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
     To provide for the transfer of certain public land currently 
  administered by the Bureau of Land Management to the administrative 
jurisdiction of the Secretary of the Army for inclusion in White Sands 
           Missile Range, New Mexico, and for other purposes.


 


    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``White Sands Missile Range Security 
Enhancement Act''.

SEC. 2. TRANSFER OF ADMINISTRATIVE JURISDICTION, WHITE SANDS MISSILE 
              RANGE, NEW MEXICO.

    (a) Transfer Required.--Not later than September 30, 2014, the 
Secretary of the Interior shall transfer to the administrative 
jurisdiction of the Secretary of the Army certain public land 
administered by the Bureau of Land Management in Dona Ana County, New 
Mexico, consisting of approximately 5,100 acres depicted as ``Parcel 
1'' on the map titled ``White Sands Missile Range Land Reservation'' 
and dated January 4, 2013.
    (b) Use of Transferred Land.--Upon the receipt of the land under 
subsection (a), the Secretary of the Army shall include the land as 
part of White Sands Missile Range, New Mexico, and authorize use of the 
land for military purposes.
    (c) Legal Description and Map.--
            (1) Preparation and publication.--The Secretary of the 
        Interior shall publish in the Federal Register a legal 
        description and map of the public land to be transferred under 
        subsection (a).
            (2) Force of law.--The legal description and map filed 
        under paragraph (1) shall have the same force and effect as if 
        included in this Act, except that the Secretary of the Interior 
        may correct errors in the legal description.
    (d) Reimbursement of Costs.--The transfer required by subsection 
(a) shall be made without reimbursement, except that the Secretary of 
the Army shall reimburse the Secretary of the Interior for any costs 
incurred by the Secretary of the Interior to prepare the legal 
description and map under subsection (c).
    (e) Treatment of Grazing Leases.--If a grazing permit or lease 
exists on the date of the enactment of this Act for any portion of the 
public land to be transferred under subsection (a), the Secretary of 
the Interior shall transfer or relocate the grazing allotments 
associated with the permit or lease to other public land, acceptable to 
the permit or lease holder, so that the grazing continues to have the 
same value to the holder.

SEC. 3. WATER RIGHTS.

    (a) Water Rights.--Nothing in this Act shall be construed--
            (1) to establish a reservation in favor of the United 
        States with respect to any water or water right on lands 
        transferred by this Act; or
            (2) to authorize the appropriation of water on lands 
        transferred by this Act except in accordance with applicable 
        State law.
    (b) Effect on Previously Acquired or Reserved Water Rights.--This 
section shall not be construed to affect any water rights acquired or 
reserved by the United States before the date of the enactment of this 
Act.

SEC. 4. WITHDRAWAL.

    Subject to valid existing rights, the public land to be transferred 
under section 2 is withdrawn from all forms of appropriation under the 
public land laws, including the mining laws and geothermal leasing 
laws, so long as the lands remain under the administrative jurisdiction 
of the Secretary of the Army.
                                                  Union Calendar No. 85

113th CONGRESS

  1st Session

                               H. R. 1299

                      [Report No. 113-120, Part I]

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL

     To provide for the transfer of certain public land currently 
  administered by the Bureau of Land Management to the administrative 
jurisdiction of the Secretary of the Army for inclusion in White Sands 
           Missile Range, New Mexico, and for other purposes.

_______________________________________________________________________

                             June 24, 2013

   Reported from the Committee on Natural Resources with an amendment

                             June 24, 2013

The Committee on Armed Services discharged; committed to the Committee 
 of the Whole House on the State of the Union and ordered to be printed
