
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[S. 589 Introduced in Senate (IS)]

113th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                 S. 589

            For the relief of Joseph Gabra and Sharon Kamel.


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                             March 18, 2013

Mrs. Feinstein introduced the following bill; which was read twice and 
               referred to the Committee on the Judiciary

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
            For the relief of Joseph Gabra and Sharon Kamel.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. ADJUSTMENT OF STATUS.

    (a) In General.--Notwithstanding any other provision of law, for 
the purposes of the Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1101 et 
seq.), Joseph Gabra and Sharon Kamel shall each be deemed to have been 
lawfully admitted to, and remained in, the United States, and shall be 
eligible for adjustment of status to that of an alien lawfully admitted 
for permanent residence under section 245 of the Immigration and 
Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1255) upon filing an application for such 
adjustment of status.
    (b) Application and Payment of Fees.--Subsection (a) shall apply 
only if the application for adjustment of status is filed with 
appropriate fees not later than 2 years after the date of the enactment 
of this Act.
    (c) Reduction of Immigrant Visa Numbers.--Upon the granting of 
permanent resident status to Joseph Gabra and Sharon Kamel, the 
Secretary of State shall instruct the proper officer to reduce by 2, 
during the current or subsequent fiscal year, the total number of 
immigrant visas that are made available to natives of the country of 
birth of Joseph Gabra and Sharon Kamel under section 203(a) of the 
Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1153(a)) or, if applicable, 
the total number of immigrant visas that are made available to natives 
of the country of birth of Joseph Gabra and Sharon Kamel under section 
202(e) of that Act (8 U.S.C. 1152(e)).
    (d) PAYGO.--The budgetary effects of this Act, for the purpose of 
complying with the Statutory Pay-As-You-Go Act of 2010, shall be 
determined by reference to the latest statement titled ``Budgetary 
Effects of PAYGO Legislation'' for this Act, submitted for printing in 
the Congressional Record by the Chairman of the Senate Budget 
Committee, provided that such statement has been submitted prior to the 
vote on passage.
                                 <all>
