
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H. Res. 490 Introduced in House (IH)]

113th CONGRESS
  2d Session
H. RES. 490

Providing for the consideration of the bill (H.R. 3546) to provide for 
the extension of certain unemployment benefits, and for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                           February 25, 2014

Mr. Schneider submitted the following resolution; which was referred to 
                         the Committee on Rules

_______________________________________________________________________

                               RESOLUTION


 
Providing for the consideration of the bill (H.R. 3546) to provide for 
the extension of certain unemployment benefits, and for other purposes.

    Resolved, That immediately upon adoption of this resolution the 
Speaker shall, pursuant to clause 2(b) of rule XVIII, declare the House 
resolved into the Committee of the Whole House on the state of the 
Union for consideration of the bill (H.R. 3546) to provide for the 
extension of certain unemployment benefits, and for other purposes. The 
first reading of the bill shall be dispensed with. All points of order 
against consideration of the bill are waived. General debate shall be 
confined to the bill and shall not exceed one hour equally divided and 
controlled by the chair and ranking minority member of the Committee on 
Ways and Means. After general debate the bill shall be considered for 
amendment under the five-minute rule. All points of order against 
provisions in the bill are waived. At the conclusion of consideration 
of the bill for amendment the Committee shall rise and report the bill 
to the House with such amendments as may have been adopted. The 
previous question shall be considered as ordered on the bill and 
amendments thereto to final passage without intervening motion except 
one motion to recommit with or without instructions. If the Committee 
of the Whole rises and reports that it has come to no resolution on the 
bill, then on the next legislative day the House shall, immediately 
after the third daily order of business under clause 1 of rule XIV, 
resolve into the Committee of the Whole for further consideration of 
the bill.
    Sec. 2.  Clause 1(c) of rule XIX shall not apply to the 
consideration of H.R. 3546.
                                 <all>
