
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 1080 Introduced in House (IH)]

113th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                H. R. 1080

  To amend the Sikes Act to promote the use of cooperative agreements 
  under such Act for land management related to Department of Defense 
  readiness activities and to amend title 10, United States Code, to 
facilitate interagency cooperation in conservation programs to avoid or 
        reduce adverse impacts on military readiness activities.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                             March 12, 2013

 Ms. Bordallo introduced the following bill; which was referred to the 
   Committee on Armed Services, and in addition to the Committee on 
 Natural Resources, for a period to be subsequently determined by the 
  Speaker, in each case for consideration of such provisions as fall 
           within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
  To amend the Sikes Act to promote the use of cooperative agreements 
  under such Act for land management related to Department of Defense 
  readiness activities and to amend title 10, United States Code, to 
facilitate interagency cooperation in conservation programs to avoid or 
        reduce adverse impacts on military readiness activities.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. COOPERATIVE AGREEMENTS UNDER SIKES ACT FOR LAND MANAGEMENT 
              RELATED TO DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE READINESS ACTIVITIES.

    (a) Multiyear Agreements To Fund Long-Term Management.--Subsection 
(b) of section 103A of the Sikes Act (16 U.S.C. 670c-1) is amended--
            (1) by inserting ``(1)'' before ``Funds''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
    ``(2) In the case of a cooperative agreement under subsection 
(a)(2), funds referred to in paragraph (1)--
            ``(A) may be paid in a lump sum and include an amount 
        intended to cover the future costs of the natural resource 
        maintenance and improvement activities provided for under the 
        agreement; and
            ``(B) may be invested by the recipient in accordance with 
        the recipient's own guidelines for the management and 
        investment of financial assets, and any interest or income 
        derived from such investment may be applied for the same 
        purposes as the principal.''.
    (b) Availability of Funds and Relation to Other Laws.--Subsection 
(c) of such section is amended to read as follows:
    ``(c) Availability of Funds and Relation to Other Laws.--(1) 
Cooperative agreements and interagency agreements entered into under 
this section shall be subject to the availability of funds.
    ``(2) Notwithstanding chapter 63 of title 31, United States Code, a 
cooperative agreement under this section may be used to acquire 
property or services for the direct benefit or use of the United States 
Government.''.

SEC. 2. FACILITATION OF INTERAGENCY COOPERATION IN CONSERVATION 
              PROGRAMS OF THE DEPARTMENTS OF DEFENSE, AGRICULTURE, AND 
              INTERIOR TO AVOID OR REDUCE ADVERSE IMPACTS ON MILITARY 
              READINESS ACTIVITIES.

    Section 2684a of title 10, United States Code, is amended--
            (1) by redesignating subsections (h) and (i) as subsections 
        (i) and (j); and
            (2) by inserting after subsection (g) the following new 
        subsection (h):
    ``(h) Interagency Cooperation in Conservation Programs To Avoid or 
Reduce Adverse Impacts on Military Readiness Activities.--In order to 
facilitate interagency cooperation and enhance the effectiveness of 
actions that will protect both the environment and military readiness, 
the recipient of funds provided pursuant an agreement under this 
section or under the Sikes Act (16 U.S.C. et seq.) may, with regard to 
the lands and waters within the scope of the agreement, use such funds 
to satisfy any matching funds or cost-sharing requirement of any 
conservation program of the Department of Agriculture or the Department 
of the Interior notwithstanding any limitation of such program on the 
source of matching or cost-sharing funds.''.
                                 <all>
