
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[S. 1571 Introduced in Senate (IS)]

113th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                S. 1571

 To permit the District of Columbia to obligate and expend local funds 
   in accordance with the local budget adopted by the Council of the 
District of Columbia during any period of fiscal year 2014 in which no 
Federal law appropriating such local funds is in effect, and for other 
                               purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                            October 12, 2013

  Ms. Landrieu (for herself, Mr. Carper, and Mr. Udall of New Mexico) 
introduced the following bill; which was read twice and referred to the 
        Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
 To permit the District of Columbia to obligate and expend local funds 
   in accordance with the local budget adopted by the Council of the 
District of Columbia during any period of fiscal year 2014 in which no 
Federal law appropriating such local funds is in effect, and for other 
                               purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. PERMITTING USE OF LOCAL FUNDS BY DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA WHEN 
              NO FEDERAL APPROPRIATION OF LOCAL FUNDS IS IN EFFECT FOR 
              FISCAL YEAR 2014.

    (a) Use of Local Funds.--Notwithstanding any provision of the 
District of Columbia Home Rule Act, during any period of fiscal year 
2014 in which no Act of Congress is in effect to approve the obligation 
or expenditure of local funds by the District of Columbia government, 
the District of Columbia may obligate and expend local funds for 
programs and activities at the rate set forth under ``District of 
Columbia Funds--Summary of Expenses'' as included in the Fiscal Year 
2014 Budget Request Act of 2013 (D.C. Act 20-127), as modified as of 
the date of the enactment of this Act, except that the obligation or 
expenditure of such local funds for a program or activity shall remain 
subject to any terms and conditions which were imposed on the 
obligation or expenditure of local funds for such program or activity 
pursuant to section 1101 of the Consolidated and Further Continuing 
Appropriations Act, 2013 (Public Law 113-6; 127 Stat. 412).
    (b) Effective Date.--Subsection (a) shall apply with respect to any 
obligation or expenditure of funds occurring on or after the date of 
the enactment of this Act.
                                 <all>
