
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 2086 Introduced in House (IH)]

113th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                H. R. 2086

    To direct the Secretary to make interim payments of disability 
compensation benefits for certain claims for such compensation prior to 
        the adjudication of such claims, and for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                              May 22, 2013

  Ms. Titus (for herself, Mr. McIntyre, Mr. O'Rourke, Mr. Barber, Mr. 
     Bishop of New York, Ms. Kuster, Mr. Loebsack, Ms. Brownley of 
California, Mrs. McCarthy of New York, Ms. Frankel of Florida, Ms. Lee 
of California, Mr. Sean Patrick Maloney of New York, Mr. Cicilline, Mr. 
Rahall, Mr. Swalwell of California, Mr. Michaud, Ms. Brown of Florida, 
 Mr. Ben Ray Lujan of New Mexico, Mr. Kilmer, Mr. Delaney, Mr. Waxman, 
 Mr. Costa, and Ms. Shea-Porter) introduced the following bill; which 
           was referred to the Committee on Veterans' Affairs

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
    To direct the Secretary to make interim payments of disability 
compensation benefits for certain claims for such compensation prior to 
        the adjudication of such claims, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Pay As You Rate Act''.

SEC. 2. INTERIM PAYMENTS OF COMPENSATION BENEFITS UNDER LAWS 
              ADMINISTERED BY THE SECRETARY OF VETERANS AFFAIRS.

    (a) In General.--Subchapter III of chapter 51 of title 38, United 
States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new section:
``Sec. 5127. Interim payments of compensation benefits
    ``(a) In General.--In the case of a claim described in subsection 
(b), prior to adjudicating the claim, the Secretary shall make interim 
payments of monetary benefits to the claimant based on any disability 
for which the Secretary has made a decision. Upon the adjudication of 
the claim, the Secretary shall pay to the claimant any monetary 
benefits awarded to the claimant for the period of payment under 
section 5111 of this title less the amount of such benefits paid to the 
claimant under this section.
    ``(b) Claim Described.--A claim described in this subsection is a 
claim for disability compensation under chapter 11 of this title--
            ``(1) the adjudication of which requires the Secretary to 
        make decisions with respect to two or more disabilities; and
            ``(2) for which, before completing the adjudication of the 
        claim, the Secretary makes a decision with respect to a 
        disability that would result in the payment of monetary 
        benefits to the claimant upon the adjudication of the claim,''.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections at the beginning of 
such chapter is amended by adding at the end of the items relating to 
such subchapter the following new item:

``5127. Interim payments of compensation benefits.''.
                                 <all>
