
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[S. 660 Introduced in Senate (IS)]

113th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                 S. 660

   To amend the Trade Act of 1974 to establish the position of Chief 
 Innovation and Intellectual Property Negotiator in the Office of the 
 United States Trade Representative to ensure the protection of United 
 States innovation and intellectual property interests, and for other 
                               purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                             March 22, 2013

   Mr. Hatch introduced the following bill; which was read twice and 
                  referred to the Committee on Finance

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
   To amend the Trade Act of 1974 to establish the position of Chief 
 Innovation and Intellectual Property Negotiator in the Office of the 
 United States Trade Representative to ensure the protection of United 
 States innovation and intellectual property interests, and for other 
                               purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Innovation Through Trade Act of 
2013''.

SEC. 2. ESTABLISHMENT OF CHIEF INNOVATION AND INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY 
              NEGOTIATOR.

    (a) In General.--Section 141 of the Trade Act of 1974 (19 U.S.C. 
2171) is amended--
            (1) in subsection (b), by striking paragraph (2) and 
        inserting the following:
    ``(2) There shall be in the Office three Deputy United States Trade 
Representatives, one Chief Agricultural Negotiator, and one Chief 
Innovation and Intellectual Property Negotiator, who shall be appointed 
by the President, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate. As 
an exercise of the rulemaking power of the Senate, any nomination of a 
Deputy United States Trade Representative, the Chief Agricultural 
Negotiator, or the Chief Innovation and Intellectual Property 
Negotiator submitted to the Senate for its advice and consent, and 
referred to a committee, shall be referred to the Committee on Finance. 
Each Deputy United States Trade Representative, the Chief Agricultural 
Negotiator, and the Chief Innovation and Intellectual Property 
Negotiator shall hold office at the pleasure of the President and shall 
have the rank of Ambassador.''; and
            (2) in subsection (c)--
                    (A) by moving paragraph (5) two ems to the left; 
                and
                    (B) by adding at the end the following:
    ``(6) The principal functions of the Chief Innovation and 
Intellectual Property Negotiator shall be to conduct trade negotiations 
and to enforce trade agreements relating to United States intellectual 
property and to take appropriate actions to address acts, policies, and 
practices of foreign governments that have a significant adverse impact 
on the value of United States innovation. The Chief Innovation and 
Intellectual Property Negotiator shall be a vigorous advocate on behalf 
of United States innovation and intellectual property interests. The 
Chief Innovation and Intellectual Property Negotiator shall perform 
such other functions as the United States Trade Representative may 
direct.''.
    (b) Compensation.--Section 5314 of title 5, United States Code, is 
amended by striking ``Chief Agricultural Negotiator.'' and inserting 
the following:
    ``Chief Agricultural Negotiator, Office of the United States Trade 
Representative.
    ``Chief Innovation and Intellectual Property Negotiator, Office of 
the United States Trade Representative.''.
    (c) Report Required.--Not later than 180 days after the appointment 
of the first Chief Innovation and Intellectual Property Negotiator 
pursuant to paragraph (2) of section 141(b) of the Trade Act of 1974, 
as amended by subsection (a), and every 180 days thereafter, the United 
States Trade Representative shall submit to the Committee on Finance of 
the Senate and the Committee on Ways and Means of the House of 
Representatives a report describing in detail--
            (1) enforcement actions taken by the Trade Representative 
        during the 180 days preceding the submission of the report to 
        ensure the protection of United States innovation and 
        intellectual property interests; and
            (2) other actions taken by the Trade Representative to 
        advance United States innovation and intellectual property 
        interests.
                                 <all>
