
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 316 Introduced in House (IH)]

113th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                H. R. 316

To reinstate and transfer certain hydroelectric licenses and extend the 
  deadline for commencement of construction of certain hydroelectric 
                               projects.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                            January 18, 2013

   Ms. Esty introduced the following bill; which was referred to the 
                    Committee on Energy and Commerce

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
To reinstate and transfer certain hydroelectric licenses and extend the 
  deadline for commencement of construction of certain hydroelectric 
                               projects.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Collinsville Renewable Energy 
Promotion Act''.

SEC. 2. REINSTATEMENT OF EXPIRED LICENSES AND EXTENSION OF TIME TO 
              COMMENCE CONSTRUCTION OF PROJECTS.

    Subject to section 4 of this Act and notwithstanding the time 
period under section 13 of the Federal Power Act (16 U.S.C. 806) that 
would otherwise apply to Federal Energy Regulatory Commission projects 
numbered 10822 and 10823, the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission 
(referred to in this Act as the ``Commission'') may--
            (1) reinstate the license for either or each of those 
        projects; and
            (2) extend for 2 years after the date on which either or 
        each project is reinstated under paragraph (1) the time period 
        during which the licensee is required to commence the 
        construction of such projects.
Prior to reaching any final decision under this section, the Commission 
shall provide an opportunity for submission of comments by interested 
persons, municipalities, and States and shall consider any such comment 
that is timely submitted.

SEC. 3. TRANSFER OF LICENSES TO THE TOWN OF CANTON, CONNECTICUT.

    Notwithstanding section 8 of the Federal Power Act (16 U.S.C. 801) 
or any other provision thereof, if the Commission reinstates the 
license for, and extends the time period during which the licensee is 
required to commence the construction of, a Federal Energy Regulatory 
Commission project under section 2, the Commission shall transfer such 
license to the town of Canton, Connecticut.

SEC. 4. ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT.

    (a) Definition.--For purposes of this section, the term 
``environmental assessment'' shall have the same meaning as is given 
such term in regulations prescribed by the Council on Environmental 
Quality that implement the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 
(42 U.S.C. 4321 et seq.).
    (b) Environmental Assessment.--Not later than 180 days after the 
date of enactment of this Act, the Commission shall complete an 
environmental assessment for Federal Energy Regulatory Commission 
projects numbered 10822 and 10823, updating, to the extent necessary, 
the environmental analysis performed during the process of licensing 
such projects.
    (c) Comment Period.--Upon issuance of the environmental assessment 
required under subsection (b), the Commission shall--
            (1) initiate a 30-day public comment period; and
            (2) before taking any action under section 2 or 3--
                    (A) consider any comments received during such 30-
                day period; and
                    (B) incorporate in the license for the projects 
                involved, such terms and conditions as the Commission 
                determines to be necessary, based on the environmental 
                assessment performed and comments received under this 
                section.

SEC. 5. DEADLINE.

    Not later than 270 days after the date of enactment of this Act, 
the Commission shall--
            (1) make a final decision pursuant to paragraph (1) of 
        section 2; and
            (2) if the Commission decides to reinstate one or both of 
        the licenses under such paragraph and extend the corresponding 
        deadline for commencement of construction under paragraph (2) 
        of such section, complete the action required under section 3.

SEC. 6. PROTECTION OF EXISTING RIGHTS.

    Nothing in this Act shall affect any valid license issued by the 
Commission under section 4 of the Federal Power Act (16 U.S.C. 797) on 
or before the date of enactment of this Act or diminish or extinguish 
any existing rights under any such license.
                                 <all>
