
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[S. 2650 Introduced in Senate (IS)]

113th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                S. 2650

 To provide for congressional review of agreements relating to Iran's 
                nuclear program, and for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                             July 23, 2014

Mr. Corker (for himself, Mr. Graham, Mr. Rubio, Mr. McCain, Mr. Risch, 
and Mr. Johnson of Wisconsin) introduced the following bill; which was 
     read twice and referred to the Committee on Foreign Relations

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
 To provide for congressional review of agreements relating to Iran's 
                nuclear program, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Iran Nuclear Negotiations Act of 
2014''.

SEC. 2. DEFINITIONS.

    In this Act:
            (1) Appropriate congressional committees.--The term 
        ``appropriate congressional committees'' has the meaning given 
        that term in section 14 of the Iran Sanctions Act of 1996 
        (Public Law 104-172; 50 U.S.C. 1701 note).
            (2) Joint plan of action.--The term ``Joint Plan of 
        Action'' means the Joint Plan of Action, signed at Geneva 
        November 24, 2013, by Iran and by France, Germany, the Russian 
        Federation, the People's Republic of China, the United Kingdom, 
        and the United States, and all implementing materials and 
        agreements related to the Joint Plan of Action, including the 
        technical understandings reached on January 12, 2014, and the 
        extension of the Joint Plan of Action agreed to on July 19, 
        2014.

SEC. 3. CONGRESSIONAL REVIEW OF INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS RELATING TO 
              IRAN'S NUCLEAR PROGRAM.

    (a) Submission of Agreements to Congress.--
            (1) In general.--The President shall submit to Congress an 
        agreement described in paragraph (2) not later than 3 calendar 
        days after entering into the agreement.
            (2) Agreement described.--An agreement described in this 
        paragraph is an agreement relating to Iran's nuclear program 
        entered into on or after the date of the enactment of this Act 
        by the United States and Iran. An agreement is described in 
        this paragraph without regard to whether or not one or more 
        countries other than the United States and Iran are parties to 
        the agreement.
    (b) Committee Review.--During the 15-calendar day period beginning 
on the date on which the President submits an agreement to Congress 
under subsection (a), the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate 
and the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives--
            (1) shall review the agreement; and
            (2) may hold hearings or briefings, as appropriate, related 
        to the agreement.
    (c) Joint Resolution of Disapproval.--
            (1) Joint resolution of disapproval defined.--In this 
        section, the term ``joint resolution of disapproval'' means 
        only a joint resolution of the two Houses of Congress--
                    (A) that does not have a preamble;
                    (B) the title of which is as follows: ``Joint 
                resolution disapproving a nuclear agreement with 
                Iran''; and
                    (C) the matter after the resolving clause of which 
                is as follows: ``That Congress disapproves of the 
                agreement relating to Iran's nuclear program submitted 
                by the President to Congress under section 3(a) of the 
                Iran Nuclear Negotiations Act of 2014 on ______.'', 
                with the blank space being filled with the appropriate 
                date.
            (2) Reconvening.--Upon receipt by Congress of an agreement 
        described in paragraph (2) of subsection (a), as required by 
        paragraph (1) of that subsection--
                    (A) the Speaker, if the House of Representatives 
                would otherwise be adjourned, shall notify the Members 
                of the House that, pursuant to this section, the House 
                shall convene not later than the second calendar day 
                after receipt of the agreement; and
                    (B) if the Senate has adjourned or recessed for 
                more than 2 days, the majority leader of the Senate, 
                after consultation with the minority leader of the 
                Senate, shall notify the Members of the Senate that, 
                pursuant to this section, the Senate shall convene not 
                later than the second calendar day after receipt of the 
                agreement.
            (3) Introduction.--During the 15-calendar day period 
        beginning on the calendar day after the end of the 15-calendar 
        day period described in subsection (b), a joint resolution of 
        disapproval may be introduced--
                    (A) in the House of Representatives, by the Speaker 
                (or his designee) or the minority leader (or his 
                designee); and
                    (B) in the Senate, by the majority leader (or his 
                designee) or the minority leader (or his designee).
            (4) Committee referral.--A joint resolution of disapproval 
        introduced in the Senate shall be referred to the Committee on 
        Foreign Relations and a joint resolution of disapproval 
        introduced in the House of Representatives shall be referred to 
        the Committee on Foreign Affairs.
            (5) Discharge of committees.--If the committee of either 
        House to which a joint resolution of disapproval has been 
        referred has not reported the joint resolution at the end of 
        the 15-calendar day period after the introduction of the joint 
        resolution, that committee shall be discharged from further 
        consideration of the joint resolution and the joint resolution 
        shall be placed on the appropriate calendar.
            (6) Floor consideration in the house of representatives.--
                    (A) Motions to proceed.--After the committee 
                authorized to consider a joint resolution of 
                disapproval reports it to the House of Representatives 
                or has been discharged from its consideration, it shall 
                be in order to move to proceed to consider the joint 
                resolution in the House. All points of order against 
                the motion are waived. Such a motion shall not be in 
                order after the House has disposed of a motion to 
                proceed on the joint resolution. The previous question 
                shall be considered as ordered on the motion to its 
                adoption without intervening motion. The motion shall 
                not be debatable. A motion to reconsider the vote by 
                which the motion is disposed of shall not be in order.
                    (B) Consideration.--A joint resolution of 
                disapproval shall be considered as read. All points of 
                order against the joint resolution and against its 
                consideration are waived. The previous question shall 
                be considered as ordered on the joint resolution to its 
                passage without intervening motion, except 20 hours of 
                debate equally divided and controlled by the proponent 
                and an opponent. A motion to reconsider the vote on 
                passage of the joint resolution shall not be in order. 
                No amendment to, or motion to recommit, a joint 
                resolution of disapproval shall be in order.
                    (C) Appeals.--All appeals from the decisions of the 
                Chair relating to the application of the Rules of the 
                House of Representatives to the procedure relating to a 
                joint resolution of disapproval shall be decided 
                without debate.
            (7) Floor consideration in the senate.--
                    (A) In general.--Notwithstanding Rule XXII of the 
                Standing Rules of the Senate, it is in order at any 
                time after the committee authorized to consider a joint 
                resolution of disapproval reports it to the Senate or 
                has been discharged from its consideration (even though 
                a previous motion to the same effect has been disagreed 
                to) to move to proceed to the consideration of the 
                joint resolution, and all points of order against the 
                joint resolution (and against consideration of the 
                joint resolution) are waived. The motion to proceed is 
                not debatable. The motion is not subject to a motion to 
                postpone. A motion to reconsider the vote by which the 
                motion is agreed to or disagreed to shall not be in 
                order. If a motion to proceed to the consideration of 
                the joint resolution is agreed to, the joint resolution 
                shall remain the unfinished business until disposed of.
                    (B) Debate.--Debate in the Senate on a joint 
                resolution of disapproval, and all debatable motions 
                and appeals in connection with such a resolution, shall 
                be limited to not more than 20 hours, to be equally 
                divided between, and controlled by, the majority leader 
                and the minority leader or their designees. A motion to 
                further limit debate is in order and not debatable. An 
                amendment to, or a motion to postpone, or a motion to 
                proceed to the consideration of other business, or a 
                motion to recommit the joint resolution of disapproval 
                is not in order.
                    (C) Vote on passage.--The vote on passage shall 
                occur immediately following the conclusion of the 
                debate on a joint resolution of disapproval, and a 
                single quorum call at the conclusion of the debate if 
                requested in accordance with the rules of the Senate.
                    (D) Rulings of the chair on procedure.--Appeals 
                from the decisions of the Chair relating to the 
                application of the rules of the Senate to the procedure 
                relating to a joint resolution of disapproval shall be 
                decided without debate.
                    (E) Consideration of veto messages.--Debate in the 
                Senate of any veto message with respect to a joint 
                resolution of disapproval, including all debatable 
                motions and appeals in connection with such a joint 
                resolution, shall be limited to 10 hours, to be equally 
                divided between, and controlled by, the majority leader 
                and the minority leader or their designees.
            (8) Rules relating to senate and house of 
        representatives.--
                    (A) Coordination with action by other house.--If, 
                before the passage by one House of a joint resolution 
                of disapproval of that House, that House receives from 
                the other House a joint resolution of disapproval, then 
                the following procedures shall apply:
                            (i) The joint resolution of the other House 
                        shall not be referred to a committee.
                            (ii) With respect to a joint resolution of 
                        the House receiving the resolution--
                                    (I) the procedure in that House 
                                shall be the same as if no joint 
                                resolution had been received from the 
                                other House; but
                                    (II) the vote on passage shall be 
                                on the joint resolution of the other 
                                House.
                    (B) Treatment of joint resolution of other house.--
                If one House fails to introduce or consider a joint 
                resolution of disapproval under this section, the joint 
                resolution of disapproval of the other House shall be 
                entitled to expedited floor procedures under this 
                section.
                    (C) Treatment of companion measures.--If, following 
                passage of a joint resolution of disapproval in the 
                Senate, the Senate then receives the companion measure 
                from the House of Representatives, the companion 
                measure shall not be debatable.
            (9) Rules of the house of representatives and the senate.--
        This subsection is enacted by Congress--
                    (A) as an exercise of the rulemaking power of the 
                Senate and the House of Representatives, respectively, 
                and as such is deemed a part of the rules of each 
                House, respectively, but applicable only with respect 
                to the procedure to be followed in that House in the 
                case of a joint resolution, and it supersedes other 
                rules only to the extent that it is inconsistent with 
                such rules; and
                    (B) with full recognition of the constitutional 
                right of either House to change the rules (so far as 
                relating to the procedure of that House) at any time, 
                in the same manner, and to the same extent as in the 
                case of any other rule of that House.
    (d) Limitation on Funding for Implementation of Agreement.--No 
funds authorized to be appropriated for the Department of State that 
remain available for obligation as of the date of the enactment of this 
Act may be obligated or expended to implement an agreement described in 
subsection (a)(2), including for the waiver, suspension, or other 
reduction of any sanctions with respect to Iran pursuant to such an 
agreement, if--
            (1) the President fails to submit the agreement to Congress 
        as required by subsection (a); or
            (2) a joint resolution of disapproval is enacted into law 
        pursuant to subsection (b).
    (e) Rule of Construction.--Nothing in this section or any action 
taken pursuant to this section shall be construed as approval of any 
waiver, suspension, or other reduction of any sanctions with respect to 
Iran in connection with any agreement relating to Iran's nuclear 
program.

SEC. 4. PENALTIES FOR NONCOMPLIANCE WITH INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS 
              RELATING TO IRAN'S NUCLEAR PROGRAM.

    (a) Assessment of Compliance.--If any element of the intelligence 
community (as defined in section 3 of the National Security Act of 1947 
(50 U.S.C. 3003)) receives information from any person, including the 
International Atomic Energy Agency, the Secretary of Defense, the 
Secretary of State, the Secretary of Energy, a foreign government, a 
foreign intelligence service, or another reputable source, that Iran 
has failed to comply with the terms of the Joint Plan of Action, any 
agreement to implement the Joint Plan of Action, or any other agreement 
related to Iran's nuclear program (including an agreement described in 
section 3(a)(2)), or has refused to cooperate in any substantive way 
with appropriate requests of the International Atomic Energy Agency, 
the Director of National Intelligence shall--
            (1) not later than 10 calendar days after receiving that 
        information, determine whether the information is credible and 
        accurate; and
            (2) submit to the appropriate congressional committees--
                    (A) the information; and
                    (B) the determination of the Director with respect 
                to whether the information is credible and accurate and 
                the reasons for that determination.
    (b) Reinstatement of Sanctions.--If the Director of National 
Intelligence determines that information described in subsection (a) is 
credible and accurate, any sanctions imposed with respect to Iran that 
have been waived, suspended, or otherwise reduced in connection with 
negotiations with Iran relating to Iran's nuclear program, without 
regard to whether the waiver, suspension, or other reduction of those 
sanctions took effect before or after the date of the enactment of this 
Act, shall be reinstated in full by action of law on that date that is 
5 calendar days after the date of the determination.

SEC. 5. ENFORCEMENT OF TIMELINE FOR NEGOTIATING NUCLEAR AGREEMENTS WITH 
              IRAN.

    Any sanctions imposed with respect to Iran that have been waived, 
suspended, or otherwise reduced in connection with negotiations with 
Iran relating to Iran's nuclear program, without regard to whether the 
waiver, suspension, or other reduction of those sanctions took effect 
before or after the date of the enactment of this Act, shall be 
reinstated in full by action of law on November 28, 2014, unless, 
before that date, the President--
            (1) submits to Congress an agreement described in paragraph 
        (2) of section 3(a) as required by paragraph (1) of that 
        section; and
            (2) certifies to the appropriate congressional committees 
        that the agreement is a comprehensive and long-term agreement 
        that--
                    (A) addresses all key aspects of Iran's nuclear 
                program; and
                    (B) is of a duration that is significantly longer 
                than any nuclear-related agreement between the United 
                States and Iran entered into before the date of the 
                enactment of this Act.
                                 <all>
