
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 2262 Introduced in House (IH)]

113th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                H. R. 2262

 To designate the United States Federal Judicial Center located at 333 
 West Broadway Street in San Diego, California, as the ``John Rhoades 
Federal Judicial Center'' and to designate the United States courthouse 
 located at 333 West Broadway Street in San Diego, California, as the 
    ``James M. Carter and Judith N. Keep United States Courthouse''.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                              June 5, 2013

  Mr. Issa (for himself and Mr. Peters of California) introduced the 
 following bill; which was referred to the Committee on Transportation 
                           and Infrastructure

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
 To designate the United States Federal Judicial Center located at 333 
 West Broadway Street in San Diego, California, as the ``John Rhoades 
Federal Judicial Center'' and to designate the United States courthouse 
 located at 333 West Broadway Street in San Diego, California, as the 
    ``James M. Carter and Judith N. Keep United States Courthouse''.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. JUDICIAL CENTER DESIGNATION.

    The United States Federal Judicial Center located at 333 West 
Broadway Street in San Diego, California, shall be known and designated 
as the ``John Rhoades Federal Judicial Center''. The Judicial Center 
includes the Federal property located at 221 West Broadway, 333 West 
Broadway, 880 Front Street, 325 West F Street, 808 Union Street, and 
the adjoining plaza.

SEC. 2. COURTHOUSE BUILDING DESIGNATION.

    The United States courthouse located at 333 West Broadway in San 
Diego, California, shall be known and designated as the ``James M. 
Carter and Judith N. Keep United States Courthouse''.

SEC. 3. REFERENCES.

    Any reference in a law, map, regulation, document, paper, or other 
record of the United States to the United States Federal Judicial 
Center referred to in section 1 shall be deemed to be a reference to 
the ``John Rhoades Federal Judicial Center''. Any reference in a law, 
map, regulation, document, paper, or other record of the United States 
to the United States courthouse located at 333 West Broadway Street in 
San Diego, California, referred to in section 2 shall be deemed to be a 
reference to the ``James M. Carter and Judith N. Keep United States 
Courthouse''.
                                 <all>
