
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 1394 Reported in House (RH)]

                                                 Union Calendar No. 146
113th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                H. R. 1394

                          [Report No. 113-199]

 To direct the Secretary of the Interior to establish goals for an all-
 of-the-above energy production plan strategy on a 4-year basis on all 
onshore Federal lands managed by the Department of the Interior and the 
                            Forest Service.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                             March 21, 2013

  Mr. Tipton introduced the following bill; which was referred to the 
                     Committee on Natural Resources

                           September 10, 2013

   Additional sponsors: Mr. Coffman, Mr. Gosar, Mr. Duncan of South 
                       Carolina, and Mr. Meadows

                           September 10, 2013

Committed to the Committee of the Whole House on the State of the Union 
                       and ordered to be printed

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
 To direct the Secretary of the Interior to establish goals for an all-
 of-the-above energy production plan strategy on a 4-year basis on all 
onshore Federal lands managed by the Department of the Interior and the 
                            Forest Service.


 


    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Planning for American Energy Act of 
2013''.

SEC. 2. ONSHORE DOMESTIC ENERGY PRODUCTION STRATEGIC PLAN.

    (a) In General.--The Mineral Leasing Act (30 U.S.C. 181 et seq.) is 
amended by redesignating section 44 as section 45, and by inserting 
after section 43 the following:

``SEC. 44. QUADRENNIAL STRATEGIC FEDERAL ONSHORE ENERGY PRODUCTION 
              STRATEGY.

    ``(a) In General.--
            ``(1) The Secretary of the Interior (hereafter in this 
        section referred to as `Secretary'), in consultation with the 
        Secretary of Agriculture with regard to lands administered by 
        the Forest Service, shall develop and publish every 4 years a 
        Quadrennial Federal Onshore Energy Production Strategy. This 
        Strategy shall direct Federal land energy development and 
        department resource allocation in order to promote the energy 
        and national security of the United States in accordance with 
        Bureau of Land Management's mission of promoting the multiple 
        use of Federal lands as set forth in the Federal Land Policy 
        and Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.).
            ``(2) In developing this Strategy, the Secretary shall 
        consult with the Administrator of the Energy Information 
        Administration on the projected energy demands of the United 
        States for the next 30-year period, and how energy derived from 
        Federal onshore lands can put the United States on a trajectory 
        to meet that demand during the next 4-year period. The 
        Secretary shall consider how Federal lands will contribute to 
        ensuring national energy security, with a goal for increasing 
        energy independence and production, during the next 4-year 
        period.
            ``(3) The Secretary shall determine a domestic strategic 
        production objective for the development of energy resources 
        from Federal onshore lands. Such objective shall be--
                    ``(A) the best estimate, based upon commercial and 
                scientific data, of the expected increase in domestic 
                production of oil and natural gas from the Federal 
                onshore mineral estate, with a focus on lands held by 
                the Bureau of Land Management and the Forest Service;
                    ``(B) the best estimate, based upon commercial and 
                scientific data, of the expected increase in domestic 
                coal production from Federal lands;
                    ``(C) the best estimate, based upon commercial and 
                scientific data, of the expected increase in domestic 
                production of strategic and critical energy minerals 
                from the Federal onshore mineral estate;
                    ``(D) the best estimate, based upon commercial and 
                scientific data, of the expected increase in megawatts 
                for electricity production from each of the following 
                sources: wind, solar, biomass, hydropower, and 
                geothermal energy produced on Federal lands 
                administered by the Bureau of Land Management and the 
                Forest Service;
                    ``(E) the best estimate, based upon commercial and 
                scientific data, of the expected increase in 
                unconventional energy production, such as oil shale;
                    ``(F) the best estimate, based upon commercial and 
                scientific data, of the expected increase in domestic 
                production of oil, natural gas, coal, and other 
                renewable sources from tribal lands for any federally 
                recognized Indian tribe that elects to participate in 
                facilitating energy production on its lands; and
                    ``(G) the best estimate, based upon commercial and 
                scientific data, of the expected increase in production 
                of helium on Federal lands administered by the Bureau 
                of Land Management and the Forest Service.
            ``(4) The Secretary shall consult with the Administrator of 
        the Energy Information Administration regarding the methodology 
        used to arrive at its estimates for purposes of this section.
            ``(5) The Secretary has the authority to expand the energy 
        development plan to include other energy production technology 
        sources or advancements in energy on Federal lands.
    ``(b) Tribal Objectives.--It is the sense of Congress that 
federally recognized Indian tribes may elect to set their own 
production objectives as part of the Strategy under this section. The 
Secretary shall work in cooperation with any federally recognized 
Indian tribe that elects to participate in achieving its own strategic 
energy objectives designated under this subsection.
    ``(c) Execution of the Strategy.--The relevant Secretary shall have 
all necessary authority to make determinations regarding which 
additional lands will be made available in order to meet the production 
objectives established by strategies under this section. The Secretary 
shall also take all necessary actions to achieve these production 
objectives unless the President determines that it is not in the 
national security and economic interests of the United States to 
increase Federal domestic energy production and to further decrease 
dependence upon foreign sources of energy. In administering this 
section, the relevant Secretary shall only consider leasing Federal 
lands available for leasing at the time the lease sale occurs.
    ``(d) State, Federally Recognized Indian Tribes, Local Government, 
and Public Input.--In developing each strategy, the Secretary shall 
solicit the input of affected States, federally recognized Indian 
tribes, local governments, and the public.
    ``(e) Reporting.--The Secretary shall report annually to the 
Committee on Natural Resources of the House of Representatives and the 
Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the Senate on the progress 
of meeting the production goals set forth in the strategy. The 
Secretary shall identify in the report projections for production and 
capacity installations and any problems with leasing, permitting, 
siting, or production that will prevent meeting the goal. In addition, 
the Secretary shall make suggestions to help meet any shortfalls in 
meeting the production goals.
    ``(f) Programmatic Environmental Impact Statement.--Not later than 
12 months after the date of enactment of this section, in accordance 
with section 102(2)(C) of the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 
(42 U.S.C. 4332(2)(C)), the Secretary shall complete a programmatic 
environmental impact statement. This programmatic environmental impact 
statement will be deemed sufficient to comply with all requirements 
under that Act for all necessary resource management and land use plans 
associated with the implementation of the strategy.
    ``(g) Congressional Review.--At least 60 days prior to publishing a 
proposed strategy under this section, the Secretary shall submit it to 
the President and the Congress, together with any comments received 
from States, federally recognized Indian tribes, and local governments. 
Such submission shall indicate why any specific recommendation of a 
State, federally recognized Indian tribe, or local government was not 
accepted.
    ``(h) Strategic and Critical Energy Minerals Defined.--For purposes 
of this section, the term `strategic and critical energy minerals' 
means those that are necessary for the Nation's energy infrastructure 
including pipelines, refining capacity, electrical power generation and 
transmission, and renewable energy production and those that are 
necessary to support domestic manufacturing, including but not limited 
to, materials used in energy generation, production, and 
transportation.''.
    (b) First Quadrennial Strategy.--Not later than 18 months after the 
date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary of the Interior shall 
submit to Congress the first Quadrennial Federal Onshore Energy 
Production Strategy under the amendment made by subsection (a).
                                                 Union Calendar No. 146

113th CONGRESS

  1st Session

                               H. R. 1394

                          [Report No. 113-199]

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL

 To direct the Secretary of the Interior to establish goals for an all-
 of-the-above energy production plan strategy on a 4-year basis on all 
onshore Federal lands managed by the Department of the Interior and the 
                            Forest Service.

_______________________________________________________________________

                           September 10, 2013

Committed to the Committee of the Whole House on the State of the Union 
                       and ordered to be printed
