
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[S. Con. Res. 24 Agreed to Senate (ATS)]

113th CONGRESS
  1st Session
S. CON. RES. 24

Providing for a conditional adjournment or recess of the Senate and an 
              adjournment of the House of Representatives.


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                            October 16, 2013

   Mr. Reid submitted the following concurrent resolution; which was 
                        considered and agreed to

_______________________________________________________________________

                         CONCURRENT RESOLUTION


 
Providing for a conditional adjournment or recess of the Senate and an 
              adjournment of the House of Representatives.

    Resolved by the Senate (the House of Representatives concurring), 
That when the Senate recesses or adjourns on any day from Wednesday, 
October 16, 2013, through Friday, October 25, 2013, on a motion offered 
pursuant to this concurrent resolution by its Majority Leader or his 
designee, it stand recessed or adjourned until 12:00 noon on Monday, 
October 28, 2013, or such other time on that day as may be specified by 
its Majority Leader or his designee in the motion to recess or adjourn, 
or until the time of any reassembly pursuant to section 2 of this 
concurrent resolution, whichever occurs first; and that when the House 
adjourns on any legislative day from Wednesday, October 16, 2013, 
through Monday, October 21, 2013, on a motion offered pursuant to this 
concurrent resolution by its Majority Leader or his designee, it stand 
adjourned until 2:00 p.m. on Tuesday, October 22, 2013, or until the 
time of any reassembly pursuant to section 2 of this concurrent 
resolution, whichever occurs first.
    Sec. 2.  The Majority Leader of the Senate and the Speaker of the 
House, or their respective designees, acting jointly after consultation 
with the Minority Leader of the Senate and the Minority Leader of the 
House, shall notify the Members of the Senate and House, respectively, 
to reassemble at such place and time as they may designate if, in their 
opinion, the public interest shall warrant it.
                                 <all>
