
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H. Res. 371 Engrossed in House (EH)]

H. Res. 371

                In the House of Representatives, U. S.,

                                                       October 4, 2013.
    Resolved, That upon adoption of this resolution it shall be in order to 
consider in the House any joint resolution specified in section 2 of this 
resolution. All points of order against consideration of each such joint 
resolution are waived. Each such joint resolution shall be considered as read. 
All points of order against provisions in each such joint resolution are waived. 
The previous question shall be considered as ordered on each such joint 
resolution and on any amendment thereto to final passage without intervening 
motion except: (1) 40 minutes of debate equally divided and controlled by the 
chair and ranking minority member of the Committee on Appropriations; and (2) 
one motion to recommit.
    Sec. 2.  The joint resolutions referred to in the first section of this 
resolution are as follows:
     (a) The joint resolution (H.J. Res. 75) making continuing appropriations 
for the Special Supplemental Nutrition Program for Women, Infants, and Children 
for fiscal year 2014, and for other purposes.
    (b) The joint resolution (H.J. Res. 76) making continuing appropriations for 
the National Nuclear Security Administration for fiscal year 2014, and for other 
purposes.
    (c) The joint resolution (H.J. Res. 77) making continuing appropriations for 
the Food and Drug Administration for fiscal year 2014, and for other purposes.
    (d) The joint resolution (H.J. Res. 78) making continuing appropriations for 
national intelligence program operations for fiscal year 2014, and for other 
purposes.
    (e) The joint resolution (H.J. Res. 79) making continuing appropriations for 
certain components of the Department of Homeland Security for fiscal year 2014, 
and for other purposes.
    (f) The joint resolution (H.J. Res. 80) making continuing appropriations for 
the Bureau of Indian Affairs, the Bureau of Indian Education, and the Indian 
Health Service for fiscal year 2014, and for other purposes.
    (g) The joint resolution (H.J. Res. 82) making continuing appropriations for 
the National Weather Service for fiscal year 2014, and for other purposes.
    (h) The joint resolution (H.J. Res. 83) making continuing appropriations for 
the Impact Aid program of the Department of Education for fiscal year 2014, and 
for other purposes.
    (i) The joint resolution (H.J. Res. 84) making continuing appropriations for 
Head Start for fiscal year 2014, and for other purposes.
    (j) The joint resolution (H.J. Res. 85) making continuing appropriations for 
the Federal Emergency Management Agency for fiscal year 2014, and for other 
purposes.
    Sec. 3.  Upon adoption of this resolution it shall be in order to consider 
in the House the bill (H.R. 3223) to provide for the compensation of furloughed 
Federal employees. All points of order against consideration of the bill are 
waived. The bill shall be considered as read. All points of order against 
provisions in the bill are waived. The previous question shall be considered as 
ordered on the bill and on any amendment thereto to final passage without 
intervening motion except: (1) 40 minutes of debate equally divided and 
controlled by the chair and ranking minority member of the Committee on 
Oversight and Government Reform; and (2) one motion to recommit.
    Sec. 4.  The requirement of clause 6(a) of rule XIII for a two-thirds vote 
to consider a report from the Committee on Rules on the same day it is presented 
to the House is waived with respect to any resolution reported through the 
legislative day of October 21, 2013.
    Sec. 5.  It shall be in order at any time through the calendar day of 
October 20, 2013, for the Speaker to entertain motions that the House suspend 
the rules as though under clause 1 of rule XV. The Speaker or his designee shall 
consult with the Minority Leader or her designee on the designation of any 
matter for consideration pursuant to this section.
            Attest:

                                                                          Clerk.
