
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[S. Res. 231 Introduced in Senate (IS)]

113th CONGRESS
  1st Session
S. RES. 231

    Authorizing expenditures by the Committee on Energy and Natural 
                               Resources.


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                           September 17, 2013

Mr. Wyden, from the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources, reported 
the following original resolution; which was referred to the Committee 
                      on Rules and Administration

_______________________________________________________________________

                               RESOLUTION


 
    Authorizing expenditures by the Committee on Energy and Natural 
                               Resources.

    Resolved,

SECTION 1. GENERAL AUTHORITY.

    In carrying out its powers, duties, and functions under the 
Standing Rules of the Senate, in accordance with its jurisdiction under 
Rule XXV of the Rules, including holding hearings, reporting the 
hearings, and making investigations as authorized by paragraphs 1 and 8 
of Rule XXVI of the Standing Rules of the Senate, the Committee on 
Energy and Natural Resources (referred to in this resolution as the 
``Committee'') is authorized for the period beginning October 1, 2013, 
and ending September 30, 2014, and for the period beginning October 1, 
2014, and ending February 28, 2015, in its discretion--
            (1) to make expenditures from the contingent fund of the 
        Senate;
            (2) to employ personnel; and
            (3) with the prior consent of the government department or 
        agency concerned and the Committee on Rules and Administration, 
        to use on a reimbursable or nonreimbursable basis the services 
        of personnel of any such department or agency.

SEC. 2. EXPENSES.

    (a) Initial Period.--The expenses of the Committee for the period 
beginning October 1, 2013, and ending September 30, 2014, under this 
resolution shall not exceed $5,463,481.
    (b) Subsequent Period.--The expenses of the Committee for the 
period beginning October 1, 2014, and ending February 28, 2015, under 
this resolution shall not exceed $2,276,450.

SEC. 3. REPORTING OF FINDINGS AND RECOMMENDATIONS.

    The Committee shall report its findings, together with such 
recommendations for legislation as it considers advisable, to the 
Senate at the earliest practicable date, but not later than February 
28, 2015.

SEC. 4. PAYMENT FROM CONTINGENT FUND.

    (a) In General.--Expenses of the Committee under this resolution 
shall be paid from the contingent fund of the Senate on vouchers 
approved by the chairman of the Committee.
    (b) Exceptions.--Vouchers shall not be required for--
            (1) the disbursement of salaries of employees paid at an 
        annual rate;
            (2) the payment of telecommunications provided by the 
        Office of the Sergeant at Arms and Doorkeeper of the Senate;
            (3) the payment of stationery supplies purchased through 
        the Keeper of the Stationery of the Senate;
            (4) payments to the Postmaster of the Senate;
            (5) the payment of metered charges on copying equipment 
        provided by the Office of the Sergeant at Arms and Doorkeeper 
        of the Senate;
            (6) the payment of Senate Recording and Photographic 
        Services; or
            (7) the payment of franked and mass mail costs by the 
        Sergeant at Arms and Doorkeeper of the Senate.

SEC. 5. AGENCY CONTRIBUTIONS.

    There are authorized such sums as are necessary for agency 
contributions related to the compensation of employees of the Committee 
for the period beginning October 1, 2013, and ending September 30, 
2014, and for the period beginning October 1, 2014, and ending February 
28, 2015, to be paid from the Appropriations account for ``Expenses of 
Inquiries and Investigations''.
                                 <all>
