
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[S. 1491 Reported in Senate (RS)]

                                                       Calendar No. 278
113th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                S. 1491

 To amend the Energy Independence and Security Act of 2007 to improve 
    United States-Israel energy cooperation, and for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                           September 10, 2013

Ms. Landrieu (for herself, Mr. Wyden, Ms. Murkowski, and Mr. Heinrich) 
introduced the following bill; which was read twice and referred to the 
               Committee on Energy and Natural Resources

                           December 19, 2013

                 Reported by Mr. Wyden, with amendments
                  [Insert the part printed in italic]

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
 To amend the Energy Independence and Security Act of 2007 to improve 
    United States-Israel energy cooperation, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. UNITED STATES-ISRAEL ENERGY COOPERATION.

    (a) Findings.--Section 917(a) of the Energy Independence and 
Security Act of 2007 (42 U.S.C. 17337(a)) is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (1), by striking ``renewable'' and 
        inserting ``covered'';
            (2) in paragraph (4)--
                    (A) by striking ``possible many'' and inserting 
                ``possible--
                    ``(A) many'';
                    (B) by inserting ``and'' after the semicolon at the 
                end; and
                    (C) by adding at the end the following:
                    ``(B) significant contributions to the development 
                of renewable energy and energy efficiency through the 
                established programs of the United States-Israel 
                Binational Industrial Research and Development 
                Foundation and the United States-Israel Binational 
                Science Foundation;'';
            (3) in paragraph (6)--
                    (A) by striking ``renewable'' and inserting 
                ``covered''; and
                    (B) by striking ``and'' after the semicolon at the 
                end;
            (4) in paragraph (7)--
                    (A) by striking ``renewable'' and inserting 
                ``covered''; and
                    (B) by striking the period at the end and inserting 
                a semicolon; and
            (5) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(8) United States-Israel energy cooperation, and the 
        development of natural resources by Israel, are strategic 
        interests of the United States;
            ``(9) Israel is a strategic partner of the United States in 
        water technology;
            ``(10) the United States can play a role in assisting 
        Israel with regional safety and security issues;
            ``(11) the National Science Foundation of the United States 
        should collaborate with the Israel Science Foundation and the 
        United States-Israel Binational Science Foundation;
            ``(12) the United States and Israel should strive to 
        develop more robust academic cooperation in energy innovation 
        technology and engineering, water science, technology transfer, 
        and analysis of geopolitical implications of new natural 
        resource development and associated areas;
            ``(13) the United States supports the goals of the 
        Alternative Fuels Administration of Israel;
            ``(14) the United States strongly urges open dialogue and 
        continued mechanisms for regular engagement and encourages 
        further cooperation between applicable departments, agencies, 
        ministries, institutions of higher education, and the private 
        sector of the United States and Israel on energy security 
        issues, including--
                    ``(A) identifying policy priorities associated with 
                the development of natural resources of Israel;
                    ``(B) discussing best practices to secure cyber 
                energy infrastructure;
                    ``(C) best practice sharing;
                    ``(D) leveraging natural gas to positively impact 
                regional stability;
                    ``(E) issues relating to the energy-water nexus, 
                including improving energy efficiency and the overall 
                performance of water technologies through research and 
                development in water desalination, wastewater treatment 
                and reclamation, water treatment in gas and oil 
                production processes, and other water treatment 
                refiners;
                    ``(F) technical and environmental management of 
                deep-water exploration and production;
                    ``(G) coastal protection and restoration;
                    ``(H) academic outreach and engagement;
                    ``(I) private sector and business development 
                engagement;
                    ``(J) regulatory consultations;
                    ``(K) leveraging alternative transportation fuels 
                and technologies; and
                    ``(L) any other areas determined appropriate by 
                United States and Israel; and
            ``(15) the United States acknowledges the achievements and 
        importance of the Binational Industrial Research and 
        Development Foundation (BIRD) and the United States-Israel 
        Binational Science Foundation (BSF) and supports continued 
        multiyear funding to ensure the continuity of the programs of 
        the Foundations.''.
    (b) Types of Energy.--Section 917(b)(2) of the Energy Independence 
and Security Act of 2007 (42 U.S.C. 17337(b)(2)) is amended--
            (1) in subparagraph (F), by striking ``and'' after the 
        semicolon at the end;
            (2) in subparagraph (G), by striking the period at the end 
        and inserting a semicolon; and
            (3) by adding at the end the following:
                    ``(H) natural gas energy, including natural gas 
                projects conducted by or in conjunction with the United 
                States-Israel Binational Science Foundation and the 
                United States-Israel Binational Industrial Research and 
                Development Foundation;
                    ``(I) improvement of energy efficiency and the 
                overall performance of water technologies through 
                research and development in water desalination, 
                wastewater treatment and reclamation, and other water 
                treatment refiners; and
                    ``(J) conventional and unconventional oil and gas 
                technologies.''.
    (c) Eligible Applicants.--Section 917(b)(3) of the Energy 
Independence and Security Act of 2007 (42 U.S.C. 17337(b)(3)) is 
amended by striking ``energy efficiency or renewable'' and inserting 
``covered''.
    (d) Authorization of Appropriations; International Partnerships.--
Section 917 of the Energy Independence and Security Act of 2007 (42 
U.S.C. 17337) is amended--
            (1) by striking subsection (d);
            (2) by redesignating subsection (c) as subsection (e); and
            (3) by inserting after subsection (b) the following:
    ``(c) International Partnerships.--
            ``(1) In general.--The Secretary may, subject to 
        appropriations, enter into cooperative agreements supporting 
        and enhancing dialogue and planning involving international 
        partnerships between the Department, including National 
        Laboratories of the Department, and the Government of Israel 
        and its ministries, offices, and institutions.
            ``(2) Federal share.--The Secretary may not pay more than 
        50 percent of Federal share of the costs described in paragraph 
        (1).
            ``(3) Annual reports.--The Secretary may submit to the 
        appropriate committees of Congress an annual report that 
        describes--
                    ``(A) actions taken to carry out this subsection; 
                and
                    ``(B) any projects under this subsection for which 
                the Secretary requests funding.
    ``(d) United States-Israel Center.--The Secretary may establish a 
joint United States-Israel Center based in an area of the United States 
with the experience, knowledge, and expertise in offshore energy 
development to further dialogue and collaboration to develop more 
robust academic cooperation in energy innovation technology and 
engineering, water science, technology transfer, and analysis of 
geopolitical implications of new natural resource development and 
associated areas.''.
    (e) Termination.--Subsection (e) of section 917 of the Energy 
Independence and Security Act of 2007 (42 U.S.C. 17337) (as 
redesignated by subsection (d)(2)) is amended by striking ``the date 
that is 7 years after the date of enactment of this Act'' and inserting 
``September 30, 2024''.
                                                       Calendar No. 278

113th CONGRESS

  1st Session

                                S. 1491

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL

 To amend the Energy Independence and Security Act of 2007 to improve 
    United States-Israel energy cooperation, and for other purposes.

_______________________________________________________________________

                           December 19, 2013

                        Reported with amendments
