
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 63 Introduced in House (IH)]

113th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                 H. R. 63

To modify the boundary of the Shiloh National Military Park located in 
Tennessee and Mississippi, to establish Parker's Crossroads Battlefield 
   as an affiliated area of the National Park System, and for other 
                               purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                            January 3, 2013

Mrs. Blackburn introduced the following bill; which was referred to the 
                     Committee on Natural Resources

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
To modify the boundary of the Shiloh National Military Park located in 
Tennessee and Mississippi, to establish Parker's Crossroads Battlefield 
   as an affiliated area of the National Park System, and for other 
                               purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Shiloh National Military Park 
Boundary Adjustment and Parker's Crossroads Battlefield Designation 
Act''.

SEC. 2. DEFINITIONS.

    In this Act, the following definitions apply:
            (1) Affiliated area.--The term ``affiliated area'' means 
        the Parker's Crossroads Battlefield established as an 
        affiliated area of the National Park System under section 4.
            (2) Park.--The term ``Park'' means Shiloh National Military 
        Park, a unit of the National Park System.
            (3) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary 
        of the Interior.

SEC. 3. AREAS TO BE ADDED TO SHILOH NATIONAL MILITARY PARK.

    (a) Additional Areas.--The boundary of Shiloh National Military 
Park is modified to include the areas that are generally depicted on 
the map entitled ``Shiloh National Military Park, Proposed Boundary 
Adjustment'', numbered 304/80,011, and dated April 2012 as follows:
            (1) Fallen Timbers Battlefield.
            (2) Russell House Battlefield.
            (3) Davis Bridge Battlefield.
    (b) Acquisition Authority.--The Secretary may acquire lands 
described in subsection (a) by donation, purchase from willing sellers 
with donated or appropriated funds, or exchange.
    (c) Administration.--Any lands acquired under this section shall be 
administered as part of the Park.

SEC. 4. ESTABLISHMENT OF AFFILIATED AREA.

    (a) In General.--Parker's Crossroads Battlefield in the State of 
Tennessee is hereby established as an affiliated area of the National 
Park System.
    (b) Description.--The affiliated area shall consist of the area 
generally depicted within the ``Proposed Boundary'' on the map entitled 
``Parker's Crossroads Battlefield, Proposed Boundary'', numbered 903/
80,073, and dated April 2012.
    (c) Administration.--The affiliated area shall be managed in 
accordance with this Act and all laws generally applicable to units of 
the National Park System.
    (d) Management Entity.--The City of Parkers Crossroads and the 
Tennessee Historical Commission shall jointly be the management entity 
for the affiliated area.
    (e) Cooperative Agreements.--The Secretary may provide technical 
assistance and enter into cooperative agreements with the management 
entity for the purpose of providing financial assistance with 
marketing, marking, interpretation, and preservation of the affiliated 
area.
    (f) Limited Role of the Secretary.--Nothing in this Act authorizes 
the Secretary to acquire property at the affiliated area or to assume 
overall financial responsibility for the operation, maintenance, or 
management of the affiliated area.
    (g) General Management Plan.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary, in consultation with the 
        management entity, shall develop a general management plan for 
        the affiliated area. The plan shall be prepared in accordance 
        with section 12(b) of Public Law 91-383 (16 U.S.C. 1a-1 et 
        seq.; commonly known as the National Park System General 
        Authorities Act).
            (2) Transmittal.--Not later than 3 years after the date 
        that funds are made available for this Act, the Secretary shall 
        provide a copy of the completed general management to the 
        Committee on Natural Resources of the House of Representatives 
        and the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the 
        Senate.
                                 <all>
