
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 5571 Introduced in House (IH)]

113th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                H. R. 5571

    To provide an increased allocation of funding for assistance in 
          persistent poverty counties, and for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                           September 18, 2014

Mr. Clyburn (for himself, Ms. Bass, Mrs. Beatty, Mr. Bishop of Georgia, 
  Ms. Brown of Florida, Mr. Butterfield, Mr. Carson of Indiana, Mrs. 
    Christensen, Ms. Clarke of New York, Mr. Clay, Mr. Cleaver, Mr. 
Conyers, Mr. Cummings, Mr. Danny K. Davis of Illinois, Ms. Edwards, Mr. 
 Ellison, Mr. Fattah, Mr. Al Green of Texas, Mr. Hastings of Florida, 
Mr. Horsford, Ms. Jackson Lee, Mr. Jeffries, Ms. Eddie Bernice Johnson 
of Texas, Mr. Johnson of Georgia, Ms. Lee of California, Mr. Lewis, Mr. 
Meeks, Ms. Moore, Ms. Norton, Mr. Payne, Mr. Rangel, Mr. Richmond, Mr. 
Rush, Mr. David Scott of Georgia, Mr. Scott of Virginia, Ms. Sewell of 
 Alabama, Mr. Thompson of Mississippi, Mr. Veasey, Ms. Waters, and Ms. 
Wilson of Florida) introduced the following bill; which was referred to 
 the Committee on Education and the Workforce, and in addition to the 
Committees on Agriculture, Transportation and Infrastructure, Financial 
Services, Science, Space, and Technology, Energy and Commerce, and the 
 Judiciary, for a period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, 
 in each case for consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
                jurisdiction of the committee concerned

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
    To provide an increased allocation of funding for assistance in 
          persistent poverty counties, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``10-20-30 Act of 2014''.

SEC. 2. ALLOCATION OF FUNDS FOR ASSISTANCE IN PERSISTENT POVERTY 
              COUNTIES.

    (a) In General.--Notwithstanding any other provision of law, of the 
funds made available (if any) in each of fiscal years 2015 through 2025 
in any appropriations Act for each of the following accounts or 
activities, 10 percent of such funds shall be allocated for assistance 
in persistent poverty counties:
            (1) ``Department of Agriculture, Rural Development 
        Programs''.
            (2) ``Department of Commerce, Economic Development 
        Administration, Economic Development Assistance Programs''.
            (3) ``Department of Commerce, National Institute of 
        Standards and Technology, Construction''.
            (4) ``Department of Education, Fund for the Improvement of 
        Education''.
            (5) ``Department of Education, Fund for the Improvement of 
        Postsecondary Education''.
            (6) ``Department of Labor, Employment and Training 
        Administration, Training and Employment Services''.
            (7) ``Department of Health and Human Services, Health 
        Resources and Services Administration''.
            (8) ``Department of Housing and Urban Development, Economic 
        Development Initiative''.
            (9) ``Department of Justice, Office of Justice Programs''.
            (10) ``Environmental Protection Agency, State and Tribal 
        Assistance Grants, Water and Wastewater''.
            (11) ``Department of Transportation, Federal Highway 
        Administration, Transportation Community and System 
        Preservation''.
            (12) ``Department of the Treasury, Community Development 
        Financial Institutions''.
    (b) Determination of Persistent Poverty Counties.--For purposes of 
this section, the term ``persistent poverty counties'' means any county 
with a poverty rate of at least 20 percent, as determined in each of 
the 1990 and 2000 decennial censuses and the Bureau of the Census's 
Small Area Income and Poverty Estimates (``SAIPE'') for the most recent 
year for which SAIPE data is available.
    (c) Reports.--Not later than six months after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, each department or agency listed in subsection 
(a) shall submit to Congress a progress report on the implementation of 
this section.
                                 <all>
