
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H. Res. 696 Engrossed in House (EH)]

H. Res. 696

                In the House of Representatives, U. S.,

                                                         July 31, 2014.
    Resolved, That upon adoption of this resolution it shall be in order to 
consider in the House the bill (H.R. 5230) making supplemental appropriations 
for the fiscal year ending September 30, 2014, and for other purposes. All 
points of order against consideration of the bill are waived. The bill shall be 
considered as read. All points of order against provisions in the bill are 
waived. The previous question shall be considered as ordered on the bill and on 
any amendment thereto to final passage without intervening motion except: (1) 
one hour of debate equally divided and controlled by the chair and ranking 
minority member of the Committee on Appropriations; and (2) one motion to 
recommit.
    Sec. 2.  After passage of H.R. 5230, and on the legislative day of July 31, 
2014, the House shall consider in the House the bill (H.R. 5272) to prohibit 
certain actions with respect to deferred action for aliens not lawfully present 
in the United States, and for other purposes. All points of order against 
consideration of the bill are waived. The bill shall be considered as read. All 
points of order against provisions in the bill are waived. The previous question 
shall be considered as ordered on the bill and on any amendment thereto to final 
passage without intervening motion except: (1) one hour of debate equally 
divided and controlled by the chair and ranking minority member of the Committee 
on the Judiciary; and (2) one motion to recommit.
    Sec. 3.  Upon adoption of this resolution it shall be in order to take from 
the Speaker's table the bill (H.R. 5021) to provide an extension of Federal-aid 
highway, highway safety, motor carrier safety, transit, and other programs 
funded out of the Highway Trust Fund, and for other purposes, with the Senate 
amendment thereto, and to consider in the House, without intervention of any 
point of order, a motion offered by the chair of the Committee on Transportation 
and Infrastructure or his designee that the House disagree to the Senate 
amendment. The Senate amendment and the motion shall be considered as read. The 
previous question shall be considered as ordered on the motion to its adoption 
without intervening motion except one hour of debate equally divided and 
controlled by the chair and ranking minority member of the Committee on 
Transportation and Infrastructure.
    Sec. 4.  Any motion pursuant to clause 4 of rule XXII relating to H.R. 5021 
may be offered only by the Majority Leader or his designee.
    Sec. 5.  It shall be in order at any time on the legislative day of July 31, 
2014, for the Speaker to entertain motions that the House suspend the rules as 
though under clause 1 of rule XV. The Speaker or his designee shall consult with 
the Minority Leader or her designee on the designation of any matter for 
consideration pursuant to this section.
    Sec. 6.  The requirement of clause 6(a) of rule XIII for a two-thirds vote 
to consider a report from the Committee on Rules on the same day it is presented 
to the House is waived with respect to any resolution reported through the 
legislative day of July 31, 2014.
            Attest:

                                                                          Clerk.
