
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 598 Introduced in House (IH)]

113th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                H. R. 598

  To amend title 5, United States Code, to give members of the United 
 States Capitol Police the option to delay mandatory retirement until 
                                age 60.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                            February 8, 2013

 Mr. Capuano introduced the following bill; which was referred to the 
Committee on House Administration, and in addition to the Committee on 
   Oversight and Government Reform, for a period to be subsequently 
   determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of such 
 provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
  To amend title 5, United States Code, to give members of the United 
 States Capitol Police the option to delay mandatory retirement until 
                                age 60.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. OPTIONAL DELAY IN MANDATORY RETIREMENT AGE FOR MEMBERS OF 
              CAPITOL POLICE.

    (a) Civil Service Retirement System.--The second sentence of 
section 8335(c) of title 5, United States Code, is amended to read as 
follows: ``At the request of such a member, the Capitol Police Board 
shall exempt the member from automatic separation under this subsection 
until that member becomes 60 years of age, so long as the member 
undergoes a physical examination during the 6-month period which ends 
on the day the member turns 57 years of age and, on the basis of the 
examination, meets appropriate physical fitness criteria (as determined 
by the Board in consultation with the Chief of the Capitol Police and 
the exclusive representative of the Capitol Police under chapter 71 of 
title 5, United States Code, with respect to collective bargaining).''.
    (b) Federal Employees Retirement System.--The second sentence of 
section 8425(c) of title 5, United States Code, is amended to read as 
follows: ``At the request of such a member, the Capitol Police Board 
shall exempt the member from automatic separation under this subsection 
until that member becomes 60 years of age, so long as the member 
undergoes a physical examination during the 6-month period which ends 
on the day the member turns 57 years of age and, on the basis of the 
examination, meets appropriate physical fitness criteria (as determined 
by the Board in consultation with the Chief of the Capitol Police and 
the exclusive representative of the Capitol Police under chapter 71 of 
title 5, United States Code, with respect to collective bargaining).''.
                                 <all>
