
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[S. 1640 Introduced in Senate (IS)]

113th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                S. 1640

To facilitate planning, permitting, administration, implementation, and 
 monitoring of pinyon-juniper dominated landscape restoration projects 
         within Lincoln County, Nevada, and for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                            November 4, 2013

  Mr. Heller introduced the following bill; which was read twice and 
       referred to the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
To facilitate planning, permitting, administration, implementation, and 
 monitoring of pinyon-juniper dominated landscape restoration projects 
         within Lincoln County, Nevada, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Pinyon-Juniper Related Projects 
Implementation Act''.

SEC. 2. FACILITATION OF PINYON-JUNIPER RELATED PROJECTS.

    (a) Availability of Special Account Under Lincoln County Land Act 
of 2000.--Section 5(b) of the Lincoln County Land Act of 2000 (Public 
Law 106-298; 114 Stat. 1048), is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (1)--
                    (A) in subparagraph (B), by inserting ``and 
                implementation'' after ``development''; and
                    (B) in subparagraph (C)--
                            (i) in clause (i), by striking ``; and'' at 
                        the end and inserting a semicolon;
                            (ii) in clause (ii), by striking ``; and'' 
                        at the end and inserting a semicolon; and
                            (iii) by adding at the end the following:
                    ``(iii) planning, permitting, administration, 
                implementation, and monitoring of pinyon-juniper 
                dominated landscape restoration projects within Lincoln 
                County, consistent with the Ely Resource Management 
                Plan; and
                    ``(iv) completing compliance activities under the 
                National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 
                4321 et seq.), related mitigation plans, and 
                archeological research and resource inventory in 
                compliance with the National Historic Preservation Act 
                (16 U.S.C. 470 et seq.), the Native American Graves 
                Protection and Repatriation Act (25 U.S.C. 3001 et 
                seq.), and Public Law 95-341 (commonly known as the 
                `American Indian Religious Freedom Act') (42 U.S.C. 
                1996) for areas of proposed land use authorizations and 
                rights-of-way required for development of land conveyed 
                pursuant to this Act and the Lincoln County 
                Conservation, Recreation, and Development Act of 2004 
                (Public Law 108-424; 118 Stat. 2403) and as required 
                for authorization of leases, rights-of-way, and 
                development within the Bureau of Land Management-
                designated Dry Lake Valley North Solar Energy Zone; 
                and''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(3) Waiver of fees.--Processing of applications for 
        rights-of-way submitted by a local government or regional 
        government to serve land conveyed pursuant to this Act shall 
        not require payment of cost recovery fees or payment of 
        contributed funds.
            ``(4) Cooperative agreements.--Establishment and funding of 
        cooperative agreements between the Bureau of Land Management 
        and Lincoln County, Nevada, shall be required for County-
        provided law enforcement and planning related activities 
        regarding--
                    ``(A) wilderness in Lincoln County, Nevada, 
                designated by the Lincoln County Conservation, 
                Recreation, and Development Act of 2004 (Public Law 
                108-424; 118 Stat. 2403);
                    ``(B) cultural resources identified, protected, and 
                managed pursuant to that Act;
                    ``(C) planning, management, and law enforcement 
                associated with the Silver State OHV Trail designated 
                by that Act; and
                    ``(D) planning associated with land disposal and 
                related land use authorizations required for utility 
                corridors and rights of way to serve land that has 
                been, or is to be, disposed of pursuant to that Act and 
                this Act.''.
    (b) Availability of Special Account Under Lincoln County 
Conservation, Recreation, and Development Act of 2004.--Section 103 of 
the Lincoln County Conservation, Recreation, and Development Act of 
2004 (Public Law 108-424; 118 Stat. 2406) is amended--
            (1) in subsection (b)(3)--
                    (A) in subparagraph (E), by striking ``; and'' at 
                the end and inserting a semicolon;
                    (B) in subparagraph (F), by striking the period at 
                the end and inserting a semicolon; and
                    (C) by adding at the end the following:
                    ``(G) planning, permitting, administration, 
                implementation, and monitoring of pinyon-juniper 
                dominated landscape restoration projects within Lincoln 
                County, consistent with the Ely Resource Management 
                Plan; and
                    ``(H) completing compliance activities under the 
                National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 
                4321 et seq.), related mitigation plans, and 
                archeological research and resource inventory in 
                compliance with the National Historic Preservation Act 
                (16 U.S.C. 470 et seq.), the Native American Graves 
                Protection and Repatriation Act (25 U.S.C. 3001 et 
                seq.), and Public Law 95-341 (commonly known as the 
                `American Indian Religious Freedom Act') (42 U.S.C. 
                1996) for areas of proposed land use authorizations and 
                rights-of-way required for development of land conveyed 
                pursuant to this Act and the Lincoln County Land Act of 
                2000 (Public Law 106-298; 114 Stat. 1046) and as 
                required for authorization of leases, rights-of-way, 
                and development within the Bureau of Land Management-
                designated Dry Lake Valley North Solar Energy Zone.''; 
                and
            (2) by adding at the end the following:
    ``(d) Waiver of Fees.--Processing of applications for rights-of-way 
submitted by a local government or regional government to serve lands 
conveyed pursuant to this Act shall not require payment of cost 
recovery fees or payment of contributed funds.
    ``(e) Cooperative Agreements.--Establishment and funding of 
cooperative agreements between the Bureau of Land Management and 
Lincoln County, Nevada, shall be required for County-provided law 
enforcement and planning related activities regarding--
            ``(1) wilderness in Lincoln County, Nevada, designated by 
        this Act;
            ``(2) cultural resources identified, protected, and managed 
        pursuant to this Act;
            ``(3) planning, management, and law enforcement associated 
        with the Silver State OHV Trail designated by this Act; and
            ``(4) planning associated with land disposal and related 
        land use authorizations required for utility corridors and 
        rights of way to serve land that has been, or is to be, 
        disposed of pursuant to this Act and the Lincoln County Land 
        Act of 2000 (Public Law 106-298; 114 Stat. 1046).''.

SEC. 3. DISPOSITION OF PROCEEDS.

    (a) Disposition of Proceeds Under Lincoln County Land Act of 
2000.--Section 5(a)(2) of the Lincoln County Land Act of 2000 (Public 
Law 106-298; 114 Stat. 1047) is amended by inserting ``and economic 
development'' after ``schools''.
    (b) Disposition of Proceeds Under Lincoln County Conservation, 
Recreation, and Development Act of 2004.--Section 103(b)(2) of the 
Lincoln County Conservation, Recreation, and Development Act of 2004 
(Public Law 108-424; 118 Stat. 2405) is amended by striking ``and 
transportation'' and inserting ``transportation, and economic 
development''.

SEC. 4. CERTAIN LAND IN UTILITY CORRIDOR NOT WITHDRAWN.

    Section 301(c) of the Lincoln County Conservation, Recreation, and 
Development Act of 2004 (Public Law 108-424; 118 Stat. 2413) is amended 
in the matter preceding paragraph (1) by inserting ``(other than land 
in the corridor located in sections 7, 8, 9, 10, and 15, T. 7 N., R. 68 
E.)'' after ``subsection (a)''.
                                 <all>
