
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 2447 Introduced in House (IH)]

113th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                H. R. 2447

 To direct the Committee on Technology under the National Science and 
Technology Council to develop a national manufacturing competitiveness 
                strategic plan, and for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                             June 20, 2013

Mr. Lipinski (for himself, Mr. Kinzinger of Illinois, Mr. Dingell, Mr. 
 Wolf, Mr. Michaud, Mr. Hultgren, and Mr. Ryan of Ohio) introduced the 
following bill; which was referred to the Committee on Science, Space, 
    and Technology, and in addition to the Committees on Energy and 
Commerce and the Budget, for a period to be subsequently determined by 
the Speaker, in each case for consideration of such provisions as fall 
           within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
 To direct the Committee on Technology under the National Science and 
Technology Council to develop a national manufacturing competitiveness 
                strategic plan, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``American Manufacturing 
Competitiveness Act of 2013''.

SEC. 2. NATIONAL MANUFACTURING COMPETITIVENESS STRATEGIC PLAN.

    Section 102 of the America COMPETES Reauthorization Act of 2010 (42 
U.S.C. 6622) is amended--
            (1) in subsection (b), by striking paragraph (7) and 
        inserting the following:
            ``(7) develop and update a national manufacturing 
        competitiveness strategic plan in accordance with subsection 
        (c).''; and
            (2) by striking subsection (c) and inserting the following:
    ``(c) National Manufacturing Competitiveness Strategic Plan.--
            ``(1) In general.--The Committee shall develop, and update 
        every 4 years, a strategic plan to improve Government 
        coordination and provide long-term guidance for Federal 
        programs and activities in support of United States 
        manufacturing competitiveness, including advanced manufacturing 
        research and development.
            ``(2) Committee chairperson.--In developing and updating 
        the strategic plan, the Secretary of Commerce, or a designee of 
        the Secretary, shall serve as the chairperson of the Committee.
            ``(3) Goals.--The goals of such strategic plan shall be 
        to--
                    ``(A) promote growth, including job creation, 
                sustainability, and competitiveness, in the United 
                States manufacturing sector;
                    ``(B) support the development of a skilled 
                manufacturing workforce;
                    ``(C) enable innovation and investment in domestic 
                manufacturing; and
                    ``(D) support national security.
            ``(4) Contents.--Such strategic plan shall--
                    ``(A) specify and prioritize near-term and long-
                term objectives to meet the goals of the plan, 
                including research and development objectives, the 
                anticipated timeframe for achieving the objectives, and 
                the metrics for use in assessing progress toward the 
                objectives;
                    ``(B) describe the progress made in achieving the 
                objectives from prior strategic plans, including a 
                discussion of why specific objectives were not met;
                    ``(C) specify the role, including the programs and 
                activities, of each Federal agency in meeting the 
                objectives of the strategic plan;
                    ``(D) describe how the Federal agencies and 
                federally funded research and development centers 
                supporting advanced manufacturing research and 
                development will foster the transfer of research and 
                development results into new manufacturing technologies 
                and United States based manufacturing of new products 
                and processes for the benefit of society to ensure 
                national, energy, and economic security;
                    ``(E) describe how such Federal agencies and 
                centers will strengthen all levels of manufacturing 
                education and training programs to ensure an adequate, 
                well-trained workforce;
                    ``(F) describe how such Federal agencies and 
                centers will assist small- and medium-sized 
                manufacturers in developing and implementing new 
                products and processes;
                    ``(G) take into consideration and include a 
                discussion of the analysis conducted under paragraph 
                (5); and
                    ``(H) take into consideration the recommendations 
                of a wide range of stakeholders, including 
                representatives from diverse manufacturing sectors and 
                companies, academia, existing Federal advisory 
                committees, such as the Defense Science Board, the 
                President's Council of Advisors on Science and 
                Technology, the Manufacturing Council established by 
                the Department of Commerce, and the Labor Advisory 
                Committee for Trade Negotiations and Trade Policy, and 
                other relevant organizations and institutions.
            ``(5) Preliminary analysis.--
                    ``(A) In general.--As part of developing such 
                strategic plan, the Committee shall conduct an analysis 
                of factors that impact the competitiveness and growth 
                of the United States manufacturing sector, including--
                            ``(i) research, development, innovation, 
                        technology transfer, and commercialization 
                        activities in the United States;
                            ``(ii) the adequacy of the industrial base 
                        for maintaining national security;
                            ``(iii) the state and capabilities of the 
                        domestic manufacturing workforce;
                            ``(iv) trade, trade enforcement, and 
                        intellectual property policies;
                            ``(v) financing, investment, and taxation 
                        policies and practices;
                            ``(vi) the state of emerging technologies 
                        and markets; and
                            ``(vii) efforts and policies related to 
                        manufacturing promotion undertaken by competing 
                        nations.
                    ``(B) Reliance on existing information.--To the 
                extent practicable, in completing the analysis under 
                subparagraph (A), the Committee shall use existing 
                information and the results of previous studies and 
                reports.
    ``(d) Report.--Not later than 1 year after the date of enactment of 
the American Manufacturing Competitiveness Act of 2013, the Director 
shall transmit the strategic plan developed under subsection (b)(7) to 
the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate 
and the Committee on Science, Space, and Technology of the House of 
Representatives and shall transmit subsequent updates to those 
committees as appropriate.
    ``(e) Requirement To Consider Strategy in the Budget.--In preparing 
the budget for a fiscal year under section 1105(a) of title 31, United 
States Code, the President shall include information regarding the 
consistency of the budget with the goals and recommendations included 
in the strategic plan developed under subsection (b)(7) applying to 
that fiscal year.''.
                                 <all>
