
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H. Con. Res. 32 Received in Senate (RDS)]

113th CONGRESS
  1st Session
H. CON. RES. 32


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                              May 7, 2013

                                Received

_______________________________________________________________________

                         CONCURRENT RESOLUTION


 
Authorizing the use of the Capitol Grounds for the National Honor Guard 
                       and Pipe Band Exhibition.

    Resolved by the House of Representatives (the Senate concurring),

SECTION 1. USE OF THE CAPITOL GROUNDS FOR NATIONAL HONOR GUARD AND PIPE 
              BAND EXHIBITION.

    (a) In General.--The Grand Lodge of the Fraternal Order of Police 
and its auxiliary (in this resolution referred to as the ``sponsor'') 
shall be permitted to


              

 sponsor a public event, the National Honor Guard and Pipe Band 
Exhibition (in this resolution referred to as the ``event''), on the 
Capitol Grounds, in order to allow law enforcement representatives to 
exhibit their ability to demonstrate Honor Guard programs and provide 
for a bag pipe exhibition.
    (b) Date of Event.--The event shall be held on May 14, 2013, or on 
such other date as the Speaker of the House of Representatives and the 
Committee on Rules and Administration of the Senate jointly designate.

SEC. 2. TERMS AND CONDITIONS.

    (a) In General.--Under conditions to be prescribed by the Architect 
of the Capitol and the Capitol Police Board, the event shall be--
            (1) free of admission charge and open to the public; and
            (2) arranged not to interfere with the needs of Congress.
    (b) Expenses and Liabilities.--The sponsor shall assume full 
responsibility for all expenses and liabilities incident to all 
activities associated with the event.

SEC. 3. EVENT PREPARATIONS.

    Subject to the approval of the Architect of the Capitol, the 
sponsor is authorized to erect upon the Capitol Grounds such stage, 
sound amplification devices, and other related structures and 
equipment, as may be required for the event.

SEC. 4. ENFORCEMENT OF RESTRICTIONS.

    The Capitol Police Board shall provide for enforcement of the 
restrictions contained in section 5104(c) of title 40, United States 
Code, concerning sales, advertisements, displays, and solicitations on 
the Capitol Grounds, as well as other restrictions applicable to the 
Capitol Grounds, in connection with the event.

            Passed the House of Representatives May 6, 2013.

            Attest:

                                                 KAREN L. HAAS,

                                                                 Clerk.
