
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 1683 Introduced in House (IH)]

113th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                H. R. 1683

To establish the Columbine-Hondo Wilderness in the State of New Mexico, 
  to provide for the conveyance of certain parcels of National Forest 
           System land in the State, and for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                             April 23, 2013

 Mr. Ben Ray Lujan of New Mexico introduced the following bill; which 
           was referred to the Committee on Natural Resources

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
To establish the Columbine-Hondo Wilderness in the State of New Mexico, 
  to provide for the conveyance of certain parcels of National Forest 
           System land in the State, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE; TABLE OF CONTENTS.

    (a) Short Title.--This Act may be cited as the ``Columbine-Hondo 
Wilderness Act''.
    (b) Table of Contents.--The table of contents for this Act is as 
follows:

Sec. 1. Short title; table of contents.
Sec. 2. Definitions.
    TITLE I--ADDITION TO THE NATIONAL WILDERNESS PRESERVATION SYSTEM

Sec. 101. Designation of the Columbine-Hondo Wilderness.
Sec. 102. Wheeler Peak Wilderness boundary modification.
Sec. 103. Authorization of appropriations.
                  TITLE II--LAND CONVEYANCES AND SALES

Sec. 201. Town of Red River land conveyance.
Sec. 202. Village of Taos Ski Valley land conveyance.
Sec. 203. Authorization of sale of certain National Forest System land.

SEC. 2. DEFINITIONS.

    In this Act:
            (1) Red river conveyance map.--The term ``Red River 
        Conveyance Map'' means the map entitled ``Town of Red River 
        Town Site Act Proposal'' and dated April 19, 2012.
            (2) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary 
        of Agriculture.
            (3) State.--The term ``State'' means the State of New 
        Mexico.
            (4) Town.--The term ``Town'' means the town of Red River, 
        New Mexico.
            (5) Village.--The term ``Village'' means the village of 
        Taos Ski Valley, New Mexico.
            (6) Wilderness.--The term ``Wilderness'' means the 
        Columbine-Hondo Wilderness designated by section 101(a).
            (7) Wilderness map.--The term ``Wilderness Map'' means the 
        map entitled ``Columbine-Hondo, Wheeler Peak Wilderness'' and 
        dated April 25, 2012.

    TITLE I--ADDITION TO THE NATIONAL WILDERNESS PRESERVATION SYSTEM

SEC. 101. DESIGNATION OF THE COLUMBINE-HONDO WILDERNESS.

    (a) In General.--In accordance with the Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 
1131 et seq.), the approximately 45,000 acres of land in the Carson 
National Forest in the State, as generally depicted on the Wilderness 
Map, is designated as wilderness and as a component of the National 
Wilderness Preservation System, which shall be known as the 
``Columbine-Hondo Wilderness''.
    (b) Management.--Subject to valid existing rights, the Wilderness 
shall be administered by the Secretary in accordance with this Act and 
the Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1131 et seq.), except that any reference 
in that Act to the effective date of that Act shall be considered to be 
a reference to the date of enactment of this Act.
    (c) Incorporation of Acquired Land and Interests in Land.--Any land 
or interest in land that is within the boundary of the Wilderness that 
is acquired by the United States shall--
            (1) become part of the Wilderness; and
            (2) be managed in accordance with--
                    (A) the Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1131 et seq.);
                    (B) this section; and
                    (C) any other applicable laws.
    (d) Grazing.--Grazing of livestock in the Wilderness, where 
established before the date of enactment of this Act, shall be 
administered in accordance with--
            (1) section 4(d)(4) of the Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 
        1133(d)(4)); and
            (2) the guidelines set forth in the report of the Committee 
        on Interior and Insular Affairs of the House of Representatives 
        accompanying H.R. 5487 of the 96th Congress (H. Rept. 96-617).
    (e) Columbine-Hondo Wilderness Study Area.--
            (1) Finding.--Congress finds that, for purposes of section 
        103(a)(2) of Public Law 96-550 (16 U.S.C. 1132 note; 94 Stat. 
        3223), any Federal land in the Columbine-Hondo Wilderness Study 
        Area administered by the Forest Service that is not designated 
        as wilderness by subsection (a) has been adequately reviewed 
        for wilderness designation.
            (2) Applicability.--The Federal land described in paragraph 
        (1) is no longer subject to subsections (a)(2) and (b) of 
        section 103 of Public Law 96-550 (16 U.S.C. 1132 note; 94 Stat. 
        3223).
    (f) Maps and Legal Descriptions.--
            (1) In general.--As soon as practicable after the date of 
        enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall prepare maps and 
        legal descriptions of the Wilderness.
            (2) Force of law.--The maps and legal descriptions prepared 
        under paragraph (1) shall have the same force and effect as if 
        included in this Act, except that the Secretary may correct 
        errors in the maps and legal descriptions.
            (3) Public availability.--The maps and legal descriptions 
        prepared under paragraph (1) shall be on file and available for 
        public inspection in the appropriate offices of the Forest 
        Service.
    (g) Fish and Wildlife.--Nothing in this Act affects the 
jurisdiction of the State with respect to fish and wildlife located on 
public land in the State, except that the Secretary, after consultation 
with the New Mexico Department of Game and Fish, may designate zones in 
which, and establish periods during which, hunting or fishing shall not 
be allowed for reasons of public safety, administration, the protection 
for nongame species and associated habitats, or public use and 
enjoyment.
    (h) Withdrawals.--Subject to valid existing rights, the Federal 
land described in subsections (a) and (e)(1) and any land or interest 
in land that is acquired by the United States in the Wilderness after 
the date of enactment of this Act is withdrawn from--
            (1) entry, appropriation, or disposal under the public land 
        laws;
            (2) location, entry, and patent under the mining laws; and
            (3) operation of the mineral leasing, mineral materials, 
        and geothermal leasing laws.

SEC. 102. WHEELER PEAK WILDERNESS BOUNDARY MODIFICATION.

    (a) In General.--The boundary of the Wheeler Peak Wilderness in the 
State is modified as generally depicted in the Wilderness Map.
    (b) Withdrawal.--Subject to valid existing rights, any Federal land 
added to or excluded from the boundary of the Wheeler Peak Wilderness 
under subsection (a) is withdrawn from--
            (1) entry, appropriation, or disposal under the public land 
        laws;
            (2) location, entry, and patent under the mining laws; and
            (3) operation of the mineral leasing, mineral materials, 
        and geothermal leasing laws.

SEC. 103. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.

    There are authorized to be appropriated such sums as are necessary 
to carry out this title.

                  TITLE II--LAND CONVEYANCES AND SALES

SEC. 201. TOWN OF RED RIVER LAND CONVEYANCE.

    (a) In General.--Subject to the provisions of this section, the 
Secretary shall convey to the Town, without consideration and by 
quitclaim deed, all right, title, and interest of the United States in 
and to the one or more parcels of Federal land described in subsection 
(b) for which the Town submits a request to the Secretary by the date 
that is not later than 1 year after the date of enactment of this Act.
    (b) Description of Land.--The parcels of Federal land referred to 
in subsection (a) are the parcels of National Forest System land 
(including any improvements to the land) in Taos County, New Mexico, 
that are identified as ``Parcel 1'', ``Parcel 2'', ``Parcel 3'', and 
``Parcel 4'' on the Red River Conveyance Map.
    (c) Conditions.--The conveyance under subsection (a) shall be 
subject to--
            (1) valid existing rights;
            (2) public rights-of-way through ``Parcel 1'', ``Parcel 
        3'', and ``Parcel 4'';
            (3) an administrative right-of-way through ``Parcel 2'' 
        reserved to the United States; and
            (4) such additional terms and conditions as the Secretary 
        may require.
    (d) Use of Land.--As a condition of the conveyance under subsection 
(a), the Town shall use--
            (1) ``Parcel 1'' for a wastewater treatment plant;
            (2) ``Parcel 2'' for a cemetery;
            (3) ``Parcel 3'' for a public park; and
            (4) ``Parcel 4'' for a public road.
    (e) Reversion.--In the quitclaim deed to the Town under subsection 
(a), the Secretary shall provide that any parcel of Federal land 
conveyed to the Town under subsection (a) shall revert to the 
Secretary, at the election of the Secretary, if the parcel of Federal 
land is used for a purpose other than the purpose for which the parcel 
was conveyed, as required under subsection (d).
    (f) Survey; Administrative Costs.--
            (1) Survey.--The exact acreage and legal description of the 
        National Forest System land conveyed under subsection (a) shall 
        be determined by a survey approved by the Secretary.
            (2) Costs.--The Town shall pay the reasonable survey and 
        other administrative costs associated with the conveyance.

SEC. 202. VILLAGE OF TAOS SKI VALLEY LAND CONVEYANCE.

    (a) In General.--Subject to the provisions of this section, the 
Secretary shall convey to the Village, without consideration and by 
quitclaim deed, all right, title, and interest of the United States in 
and to the parcel of Federal land described in subsection (b) for which 
the Village submits a request to the Secretary by the date that is not 
later than 1 year after the date of enactment of this Act.
    (b) Description of Land.--The parcel of Federal land referred to in 
subsection (a) is the parcel comprising approximately 4.6 acres of 
National Forest System land (including any improvements to the land) in 
Taos County generally depicted as ``Parcel 1'' on the map entitled 
``Village of Taos Ski Valley Town Site Act Proposal'' and dated April 
19, 2012.
    (c) Conditions.--The conveyance under subsection (a) shall be 
subject to--
            (1) valid existing rights;
            (2) an administrative right-of-way through the parcel of 
        Federal land described in subsection (b) reserved to the United 
        States; and
            (3) such additional terms and conditions as the Secretary 
        may require.
    (d) Use of Land.--As a condition of the conveyance under subsection 
(a), the Village shall use the parcel of Federal land described in 
subsection (b) for a wastewater treatment plant.
    (e) Reversion.--In the quitclaim deed to the Village, the Secretary 
shall provide that the parcel of Federal land conveyed to the Village 
under subsection (a) shall revert to the Secretary, at the election of 
the Secretary, if the parcel of Federal land is used for a purpose 
other than the purpose for which the parcel was conveyed, as described 
in subsection (d).
    (f) Survey; Administrative Costs.--
            (1) Survey.--The exact acreage and legal description of the 
        National Forest System land conveyed under subsection (a) shall 
        be determined by a survey approved by the Secretary.
            (2) Costs.--The Village shall pay the reasonable survey and 
        other administrative costs associated with the conveyance.

SEC. 203. AUTHORIZATION OF SALE OF CERTAIN NATIONAL FOREST SYSTEM LAND.

    (a) In General.--Subject to the provisions of this section and in 
exchange for consideration in an amount that is equal to the fair 
market value of the applicable parcel of National Forest System land, 
the Secretary may convey--
            (1) to the holder of the permit numbered ``QUE302101'' for 
        use of the parcel, the parcel of National Forest System land 
        comprising approximately 0.2 acres that is generally depicted 
        as ``Parcel 5'' on the Red River Conveyance Map; and
            (2) to the owner of the private property adjacent to the 
        parcel, the parcel of National Forest System land comprising 
        approximately 0.1 acres that is generally depicted as ``Parcel 
        6'' on the Red River Conveyance Map.
    (b) Disposition of Proceeds.--Any amounts received by the Secretary 
as consideration for a conveyance under subsection (a) shall be--
            (1) deposited in the fund established under Public Law 90-
        171 (commonly known as the ``Sisk Act'') (16 U.S.C. 484a); and
            (2) available to the Secretary, without further 
        appropriation and until expended, for the acquisition of land 
        or interests in land in the Carson National Forest.
    (c) Conditions.--The conveyance under subsection (a) shall be 
subject to--
            (1) valid existing rights; and
            (2) such additional terms and conditions as the Secretary 
        may require.
    (d) Survey; Administrative Costs.--
            (1) Survey.--The exact acreage and legal description of the 
        National Forest System land conveyed under subsection (a) shall 
        be determined by a survey approved by the Secretary.
            (2) Costs.--The reasonable survey and other administrative 
        costs associated with the conveyance shall be paid by the 
        holder of the permit or the owner of the private property, as 
        applicable.
                                 <all>
