
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 178 Introduced in House (IH)]

113th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                H. R. 178

To amend title 5, United States Code, to provide for the termination of 
 further retirement benefits for Members of Congress, except the right 
  to continue participating in the Thrift Savings Plan, and for other 
                               purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                            January 4, 2013

   Mr. Griffin of Arkansas introduced the following bill; which was 
 referred to the Committee on House Administration, and in addition to 
 the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, for a period to be 
subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration 
  of such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the committee 
                               concerned

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
To amend title 5, United States Code, to provide for the termination of 
 further retirement benefits for Members of Congress, except the right 
  to continue participating in the Thrift Savings Plan, and for other 
                               purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``End Pensions in Congress Act'' or 
the ``EPIC Act''.

SEC. 2. AMENDMENTS RELATING TO THE CIVIL SERVICE RETIREMENT SYSTEM.

    (a) In General.--Subchapter III of chapter 83 of title 5, United 
States Code, is amended by inserting after section 8335 the following:
``Sec. 8335a. Termination of further retirement coverage of Members of 
              Congress
    ``(a) In General.--Notwithstanding any other provision of this 
subchapter and subject to subsection (f), effective as of the date of 
enactment of this section--
            ``(1) a Member shall not be subject to this subchapter for 
        any further period of time; and
            ``(2) no further Government contributions or deductions 
        from basic pay may be made with respect to such Member for 
        deposit in the Treasury of the United States to the credit of 
        the Fund.
    ``(b) Prior Rights Not Affected.--Nothing in subsection (a) shall 
be considered to nullify, modify, or otherwise affect any right, 
entitlement, or benefit under this subchapter with respect to any 
Member covering any period prior to the date of enactment of this 
section.
    ``(c) Right To Participate in Thrift Savings Plan Not Affected.--
Nothing in subsection (a) shall affect the eligibility of a Member to 
participate in the Thrift Savings Plan in accordance with otherwise 
applicable provisions of law.
    ``(d) Regulations.--Any regulations necessary to carry out this 
section may--
            ``(1) except with respect to matters under subparagraph 
        (B), be prescribed by the Director of the Office of Personnel 
        Management; and
            ``(2) with respect to matters relating to the Thrift 
        Savings Plan, be prescribed by the Executive Director (as 
        defined by section 8401(13)).
    ``(e) Exclusion.--For purposes of this section, the term `Member' 
does not include the Vice President.
    ``(f) Opt-In.--Not later than 90 days after the date of enactment 
of this section, a Member covered by this subchapter as of such date 
may elect, by giving notice in writing to the official by whom he is 
paid, to remain subject to this subchapter.''.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections at the beginning of 
chapter 83 of title 5, United States Code, is amended by inserting 
after the item relating to section 8335 the following:

``8335a. Termination of further retirement coverage of Members of 
                            Congress.''.

SEC. 3. AMENDMENTS RELATING TO THE FEDERAL EMPLOYEES' RETIREMENT 
              SYSTEM.

    (a) In General.--Subchapter II of chapter 84 of title 5, United 
States Code, is amended by inserting after section 8425 the following:
``Sec. 8425a. Termination of further retirement coverage of Members of 
              Congress
    ``(a) In General.--Notwithstanding any other provision of this 
chapter, effective as of the date of enactment of this section--
            ``(1) subject to subsection (f), in the case of an 
        individual who first becomes a Member before such date of 
        enactment--
                    ``(A) such Member shall not be subject to this 
                chapter for any further period of time after such date 
                of enactment; and
                    ``(B) no further Government contributions or 
                deductions from basic pay may be made with respect to 
                such Member for deposit in the Treasury of the United 
                States to the credit of the Fund; and
            ``(2) in the case of an individual who first becomes a 
        Member on or after such date of enactment--
                    ``(A) such Member shall not be subject to this 
                chapter; and
                    ``(B) no Government contributions or deductions 
                from basic pay may be made with respect to such Member 
                for deposit in the Treasury of the United States to the 
                credit of the Civil Service Retirement and Disability 
                Fund.
    ``(b) Prior Rights Not Affected.--Nothing in subsection (a) shall 
be considered to nullify, modify, or otherwise affect any right, 
entitlement, or benefit under this chapter with respect to any Member 
covering any period prior to the date of enactment of this section.
    ``(c) Right To Participate in Thrift Savings Plan Not Affected.--
Nothing in subsection (a) shall affect the eligibility of a Member to 
participate in the Thrift Savings Plan in accordance with otherwise 
applicable provisions of law.
    ``(d) Regulations.--
            ``(1) In general.--Any regulations necessary to carry out 
        this section may--
                    ``(A) except with respect to matters under 
                subparagraph (B), be prescribed by the Director of the 
                Office of Personnel Management; and
                    ``(B) with respect to matters relating to the 
                Thrift Savings Plan, be prescribed by the Executive 
                Director (as defined by section 8401(13)).
            ``(2) Refunds.--Notwithstanding subsection (b), the 
        regulations under paragraph (1)(A) shall, in the case of a 
        Member who has not completed at least 5 years of civilian 
        service as of the date of enactment of this section, provide 
        that the lump-sum credit shall be payable to such Member to the 
        same extent and in the same manner as if such Member satisfied 
        paragraphs (1) through (4) of section 8424(a) as of such date 
        of enactment.
    ``(e) Exclusion.--For purposes of this section, the term `Member' 
does not include the Vice President.
    ``(f) Opt-In.--Not later than 90 days after the date of enactment 
of this section, a Member covered by this chapter as of such date may 
elect, by giving notice in writing to the official by whom he is paid, 
to remain subject to this chapter.''.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections at the beginning of 
chapter 84 of title 5, United States Code, is amended by inserting 
after the item relating to section 8425 the following:

``8425a. Termination of further retirement coverage of Members of 
                            Congress.''.
                                 <all>
