
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 1835 Introduced in House (IH)]

113th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                H. R. 1835

To provide that service of the members of the organization known as the 
United States Cadet Nurse Corps during World War II constituted active 
military service for purposes of laws administered by the Secretary of 
                           Veterans Affairs.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                              May 6, 2013

 Mrs. Lowey (for herself, Mrs. Capps, Ms. Bordallo, Mr. Courtney, Mr. 
  Connolly, Ms. DeLauro, Mr. Lance, Ms. McCollum, Mr. Polis, and Mr. 
   Schiff) introduced the following bill; which was referred to the 
  Committee on Veterans' Affairs, and in addition to the Committee on 
   Armed Services, for a period to be subsequently determined by the 
  Speaker, in each case for consideration of such provisions as fall 
           within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
To provide that service of the members of the organization known as the 
United States Cadet Nurse Corps during World War II constituted active 
military service for purposes of laws administered by the Secretary of 
                           Veterans Affairs.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``United States Cadet Nurse Corps 
Equity Act''.

SEC. 2. SERVICE DEEMED TO BE ACTIVE MILITARY SERVICE.

    (a) In General.--For purposes of section 401(a)(1)(A) of the GI 
Bill Improvement Act of 1977 (38 U.S.C. 106 note), the Secretary of 
Defense is deemed to have determined that qualified service of a person 
constituted active military service.
    (b) Determination of Discharge Status.--The Secretary of Defense 
shall issue an honorable discharge under section 401(a)(1)(B) of the GI 
Bill Improvement Act of 1977 to each person whose qualified service 
warrants an honorable discharge. Such discharge shall be issued before 
the end of the one-year period beginning on the date of the enactment 
of this Act.

SEC. 3. PROHIBITION OF RETROACTIVE BENEFITS.

    No benefits may be paid to any person as a result of the enactment 
of this Act for any period before the date of the enactment of this 
Act.

SEC. 4. DEFINITION.

    For purposes of this Act, the term ``qualified service'' means 
service of a person as a member of the organization known as the United 
States Cadet Nurse Corps during the period beginning on July 1, 1943, 
and ending on December 15, 1945.
                                 <all>
