
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 2145 Introduced in House (IH)]

113th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                H. R. 2145

 To provide for the conveyance of a small parcel of Natural Resources 
 Conservation Service property in Riverside, California, and for other 
                               purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                              May 23, 2013

  Mr. Calvert (for himself, Mr. Ruiz, and Mr. Takano) introduced the 
   following bill; which was referred to the Committee on Agriculture

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
 To provide for the conveyance of a small parcel of Natural Resources 
 Conservation Service property in Riverside, California, and for other 
                               purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. FINDINGS.

    Congress finds as follows:
            (1) Since 1935, the United States has owned a parcel of 
        land in Riverside, California, consisting of approximately 9.5 
        acres, more specifically described in section 2(a) (in this 
        section referred to as the ``property'').
            (2) The property is administered by the Department of 
        Agriculture and has been variously used for research and plant 
        materials purposes.
            (3) Since 1998, the property has been administered by the 
        Natural Resources Conservation Service.
            (4) Since 2002, the property has been co-managed under a 
        cooperative agreement between the Natural Resources 
        Conservation Service and the Riverside Corona Resource 
        Conservation District, which is a legal subdivision of the 
        State of California under section 9003 of the California Public 
        Resources Code.
            (5) The Conservation District wishes to acquire the 
        property and use it for conservation, environmental, and 
        related educational purposes.
            (6) As provided in this Act, the conveyance of the property 
        to the Conservation District would promote the Conservation 
        District's conservation education and related purposes and 
        result in savings to the Federal Government.

SEC. 2. LAND CONVEYANCE, NATURAL RESOURCES CONSERVATION SERVICE 
              PROPERTY, RIVERSIDE COUNTY, CALIFORNIA.

    (a) Conveyance Authorized.--The Secretary of Agriculture shall 
convey and quitclaim to the Riverside Corona Resource Conservation 
District (in this section referred to as the ``Conservation District'') 
all right, title, and interest of the United States in and to a parcel 
of real property, including improvements thereon, that is located at 
4500 Glenwood Drive in Riverside, California, consists of approximately 
9.5 acres, and is administered by the Natural Resources Conservation 
Service of the Department of Agriculture. As necessary or desirable for 
the conveyance under this subsection, the Secretary or the Conservation 
District may survey all or portions of the property to be conveyed.
    (b) Consideration.--
            (1) Value in use.--Subject to paragraph (2), the 
        Conservation District shall pay to the Secretary an amount 
        equal to the value in use of the property to be conveyed under 
        subsection (a) as consideration for the conveyance of the 
        property.
            (2) Required reductions.--The amount otherwise determined 
        under paragraph (1) shall be reduced by--
                    (A) the value of the improvements on the property 
                provided for by non-Federal sources; and
                    (B) the amount of any rental rate abatements 
                negotiated and agreed to by the Secretary for the 
                continued use of the property by the Department during 
                the 10-year period beginning upon the conveyance of the 
                property.
    (c) Deposit and Use of Consideration.--The amounts received as 
consideration under subsection (b) shall be credited to the applicable 
appropriation of the Natural Resources Conservation Service for 
conservation operations in California and shall remain available, 
without further appropriation, until expended as the Secretary may 
direct.
    (d) Prohibition on Reservation of Interest.--The Secretary shall 
not reserve any future interest in the property to be conveyed under 
subsection (a), except that which may be acceptable to the Conservation 
District.
    (e) Hazardous Substances.--Notwithstanding section 120(h) of the 
Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act 
of 1980 (42 U.S.C. 9620(h)) or the Solid Waste Disposal Act (42 U.S.C. 
6901 et seq.), in the conveyance of the property under subsection (a), 
the Secretary shall be only required to meet the disclosure 
requirements for hazardous substances, pollutants, or contaminants, but 
shall otherwise not be required to remediate or abate any such releases 
of hazardous substances, pollutants, or contaminants, including 
petroleum and petroleum derivatives.
    (f) Cooperative Authority.--
            (1) Leases, contracts, and cooperative agreements 
        authorized.--In conjunction with, or in addition to, the 
        conveyance under subsection (a), the Secretary may enter into 
        leases, contracts and cooperative agreements with the 
        Conservation District.
            (2) Sole source.--Notwithstanding sections 3105, 3301, and 
        3303 to 3305 of title 41, United States Code, or any other 
        provision of law, the Secretary may lease real property from 
        the Conservation District on a noncompetitive basis.
            (3) Non-exclusive authority.--The authority provided by 
        this subsection is in addition to any other authority of the 
        Secretary.
    (g) Additional Terms and Conditions.--The Secretary may require 
such reasonable terms and conditions in connection with the conveyance 
under subsection (a) as the Secretary considers appropriate to protect 
the interests of the United States, except that the conveyance does not 
require further administrative or environmental analyses or 
examination.
                                 <all>
