
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[S. 2983 Engrossed in Senate (ES)]

113th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                S. 2983

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 AN ACT


 
To allow for a contract for operation of Melville Hall of United States 
  Merchant Marine Academy after gift by United States Merchant Marine 
Academy Alumni Association and Foundation, Inc., for renovation of such 
                      hall and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``U.S. Merchant Marine Academy 
Improvement Act of 2014''.

SEC. 2. MELVILLE HALL OF UNITED STATES MERCHANT MARINE ACADEMY.

    (a) Gift to the Merchant Marine Academy.--The Maritime 
Administrator may accept a gift of money from the Foundation under 
section 51315 of title 46, United States Code, for the purpose of 
renovating Melville Hall on the campus of the United States Merchant 
Marine Academy.
    (b) Covered Gifts.--A gift described in this subsection is a gift 
under subsection (a) that the Maritime Administrator determines exceeds 
the sum of--
            (1) the minimum amount that is sufficient to ensure the 
        renovation of Melville Hall in accordance with the capital 
        improvement plan of the United States Merchant Marine Academy 
        that was in effect on the date of enactment of this Act; and
            (2) 25 percent of the amount described in paragraph (1).
    (c) Operation Contracts.--Subject to subsection (d), in the case 
that the Maritime Administrator accepts a gift of money described in 
subsection (b), the Maritime Administrator may enter into a contract 
with the Foundation for the operation of Melville Hall to make 
available facilities for, among other possible uses, official academy 
functions, third-party catering functions, and industry events and 
conferences.
    (d) Contract Terms.--The contract described in subsection (c) shall 
be for such period and on such terms as the Maritime Administrator 
considers appropriate, including a provision, mutually agreeable to the 
Maritime Administrator and the Foundation, that--
            (1) requires the Foundation--
                    (A) at the expense solely of the Foundation through 
                the term of the contract to maintain Melville Hall in a 
                condition that is as good as or better than the 
                condition Melville Hall was in on the later of--
                            (i) the date that the renovation of 
                        Melville Hall was completed; or
                            (ii) the date that the Foundation accepted 
                        Melville Hall after it was tendered to the 
                        Foundation by the Maritime Administrator; and
                    (B) to deposit all proceeds from the operation of 
                Melville Hall, after expenses necessary for the 
                operation and maintenance of Melville Hall, into the 
                account of the Regimental Affairs Non-Appropriated Fund 
                Instrumentality or successor entity, to be used solely 
                for the morale and welfare of the cadets of the United 
                States Merchant Marine Academy; and
            (2) prohibits the use of Melville Hall as lodging or an 
        office by any person for more than 4 days in any calendar year 
        other than--
                    (A) by the United States; or
                    (B) for the administration and operation of 
                Melville Hall.
    (e) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Contract.--The term ``contract'' includes any 
        modification, extension, or renewal of the contract.
            (2) Foundation.--In this section, the term ``Foundation'' 
        means the United States Merchant Marine Academy Alumni 
        Association and Foundation, Inc.
    (f) Rules of Construction.--Nothing in this section may be 
construed under section 3105 of title 41, United States Code, as 
requiring the Maritime Administrator to award a contract for the 
operation of Melville Hall to the Foundation.

            Passed the Senate December 11, 2014.

            Attest:

                                                             Secretary.
113th CONGRESS

  2d Session

                                S. 2983

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 AN ACT

To allow for a contract for operation of Melville Hall of United States 
  Merchant Marine Academy after gift by United States Merchant Marine 
Academy Alumni Association and Foundation, Inc., for renovation of such 
                      hall and for other purposes.
