
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 961 Introduced in House (IH)]

113th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                H. R. 961

To amend title 5, United States Code, to provide for the computation of 
normal-cost percentage for postal employees as a separate and distinct 
class, and to provide for the disposition of certain excess retirement 
        contributions made by the United States Postal Service.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                             March 5, 2013

  Mr. Lynch introduced the following bill; which was referred to the 
              Committee on Oversight and Government Reform

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
To amend title 5, United States Code, to provide for the computation of 
normal-cost percentage for postal employees as a separate and distinct 
class, and to provide for the disposition of certain excess retirement 
        contributions made by the United States Postal Service.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``United States Postal Service 
Stabilization Act of 2013''.

SEC. 2. SEPARATE NORMAL-COST PERCENTAGE.

    (a) In General.--Section 8423(a)(1) of title 5, United States Code, 
is amended--
            (1) in subparagraph (A)--
                    (A) by striking ``subparagraph (B))'' and inserting 
                ``subparagraph (B) or (C))''; and
                    (B) by striking ``and'' at the end;
            (2) in subparagraph (B), by striking the period and 
        inserting ``; and''; and
            (3) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(C) the product of--
                    ``(i) the normal-cost percentage, as determined for 
                employees of the United States Postal Service (and the 
                Postal Regulatory Commission), multiplied by
                    ``(ii) the aggregate amount of basic pay payable by 
                the United States Postal Service (and the Postal 
                Regulatory Commission), for the period involved, to its 
                employees.''.
    (b) Effective Date.--The amendments made by subsection (a) shall be 
carried out as soon as practicable, except that contributions shall be 
set in accordance with such amendments not later than the first 
applicable pay period beginning in the first fiscal year beginning at 
least 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act.

SEC. 3. DISPOSITION OF CERTAIN EXCESS CONTRIBUTIONS.

    (a) In General.--Section 8423(b) of title 5, United States Code, is 
amended by adding at the end the following:
    ``(6)(A) If, for any fiscal year to which this paragraph applies, 
the amount determined under paragraph (1)(B) is less than zero 
(hereinafter in this paragraph referred to as `excess postal 
contributions to FERS'), such amount shall be treated in accordance 
with the following:
            ``(i) In the case of the first fiscal year to which this 
        paragraph applies and for which excess postal contributions to 
        FERS are determined, the amount of such excess contributions 
        shall be transferred by the Secretary of the Treasury to such 
        account as the Secretary considers appropriate so that such 
        amount may be used for the payment of obligations issued by the 
        United States Postal Service under section 2005 of title 39.
            ``(ii) In the case of any subsequent fiscal year to which 
        this paragraph applies and for which excess postal 
        contributions to FERS are determined, the amount of such excess 
        contributions shall be transferred by the Secretary of the 
        Treasury to the account to which are credited any Government 
        contributions which are made by the United States Postal 
        Service under section 8334(a)(1)(B) (or which would be made, 
        but for clause (ii) thereof).
    ``(B) This paragraph applies to the fiscal year last ending before 
the date of the enactment of this paragraph and each fiscal year 
thereafter.
    ``(C) In the case of any transfer under subparagraph (A)(ii) for a 
fiscal year corresponding to a fiscal year for which a determination of 
Postal surplus or supplemental liability is scheduled to be made under 
section 8348(h), the transfer under subparagraph (A)(ii) shall be made 
before such determination under section 8348(h) is made.''.
    (b) Conforming Amendment.--Section 8348(h)(1)(B)(iii) of title 5, 
United States Code, is amended by striking ``principles.'' and 
inserting ``principles, including any amounts described in section 
8423(b)(6)(A)(ii).''.
                                 <all>
