
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H. Res. 350 Introduced in House (IH)]

113th CONGRESS
  1st Session
H. RES. 350

   Establishing a select committee to investigate and report on the 
        surveillance operations of the National Security Agency.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                           September 18, 2013

 Mr. Rokita submitted the following resolution; which was referred to 
                         the Committee on Rules

_______________________________________________________________________

                               RESOLUTION


 
   Establishing a select committee to investigate and report on the 
        surveillance operations of the National Security Agency.

    Resolved,

SECTION 1. ESTABLISHMENT.

    There is established a select committee to investigate and report 
on the surveillance operations of the National Security Agency 
(hereinafter referred to as the ``select committee'').

SEC. 2. COMPOSITION.

    (a) The select committee shall be composed of 19 members as 
follows:
            (1) The chairs and ranking members of the Committee on 
        Homeland Security, the Committee on Intelligence, the Committee 
        on the Judiciary, and the Committee on Oversight and Government 
        Reform (or designees from among the members of these 
        committees).
            (2) One member selected by the chair of each committee 
        referred to in paragraph (1) from among the members of that 
        committee.
            (3) Five members appointed by the Speaker and two members 
        appointed by the Speaker after consultation with the minority 
        leader, no more than two of which can be from the same 
        committee.
If the chair or ranking member of any such committee declines to serve 
on the select committee, then the Speaker in the case of a chair, or 
the Speaker after consultation with the minority leader in the case of 
a ranking member, shall designate the member or members from that 
committee to serve on the select committee.
    (b) The Speaker shall designate one member as chairman and the 
minority leader shall designate one member as the ranking minority 
member of the select committee.

SEC. 3. INVESTIGATION AND REPORT ON THE SURVEILLANCE OPERATIONS OF THE 
              NATIONAL SECURITY AGENCY.

    Not later than 90 days after the initial meeting of the select 
committee, the select committee shall conduct an investigation of and 
submit to the House a report on--
            (1) whether the National Security Agency violated the 
        rights of American citizens in its surveillance operations;
            (2) any improper conduct by officials in the conducting of 
        the surveillance operations or in reporting to Congress about 
        the National Security Agency's activities;
            (3) recommendations on what steps can be taken to better 
        guard American citizens' rights from unconstitutional 
        surveillance operations and what further minimization 
        procedures, if any, should be employed by intelligence agencies 
        to ensure American citizens' constitutional rights are 
        protected;
            (4) whether the large scope of the National Security 
        Agency's surveillance operations is best suited to protect 
        national security; and
            (5) any other relevant issues relating to the National 
        Security Agency's surveillance operations.

SEC. 4. PROCEDURES OF THE SELECT COMMITTEE.

    Rule XI of the Rules of the House of Representatives, including 
clause 2(j)(1) (guaranteeing the minority additional witnesses) and 
clause 2(m)(3) (providing for the authority to subpoena witnesses and 
documents), shall apply to the select committee.

SEC. 5. JOINT OPERATIONS.

    The chair of the select committee, in conducting the investigation 
described in section 3, may consult with the chair of any Senate 
committee conducting a parallel investigation regarding meeting jointly 
to receive testimony, the scheduling of hearings or issuance of 
subpoenas, and joint staff interviews of key witnesses.

SEC. 6. STAFF; FUNDING.

    (a)(1) To the extent practicable, the select committee shall 
utilize the services of staff of employing entities of the House. At 
the request of the chair in consultation with the ranking minority 
member, staff of employing entities of the House may be detailed to the 
select committee to carry out this resolution and shall be deemed to be 
staff of the select committee.
    (2) The chair, upon consultation with the ranking minority member, 
may employ and fix the compensation of such staff as the chair 
considers necessary to carry out this resolution.
    (b) There are authorized to be appropriated from the applicable 
accounts of the House such sums as may be necessary to carry out this 
resolution. Payments for the expenses of the select committee shall be 
made on vouchers signed by the chairman and approved in the manner 
directed by the Committee on House Administration. Amounts made 
available under this subsection shall be expended in accordance with 
regulations prescribed by the Committee on House Administration.

SEC. 7. DISSOLUTION AND DISPOSITION OF RECORDS.

    (a) The select committee shall cease to exist 30 days after filing 
the report required under section 3.
    (b) Upon dissolution of the select committee, the records of the 
select committee shall become the records of any committee designated 
by the Speaker.
                                 <all>
