
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 310 Introduced in House (IH)]

113th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                H. R. 310

To provide that Members of Congress may not receive pay after October 1 
  of any fiscal year in which Congress has not approved a concurrent 
 resolution on the budget and passed the regular appropriations bills.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                            January 18, 2013

  Mr. Cooper (for himself, Mr. Barber, Mr. Barrow, Mr. Bishop of New 
  York, Mrs. Black, Mrs. Blackburn, Mr. Braley of Iowa, Mr. Buchanan, 
  Mrs. Capps, Mr. Carney, Mr. Chabot, Mr. Cicilline, Mr. Coffman, Mr. 
 Conaway, Mr. Costa, Mr. Cuellar, Mr. Dent, Mr. DesJarlais, Mr. Duncan 
 of South Carolina, Mr. Fitzpatrick, Mr. Flores, Mr. Gosar, Mr. Himes, 
   Mr. Kind, Mr. Lance, Mr. Langevin, Mr. Latham, Mr. Lipinski, Mr. 
Loebsack, Mr. Matheson, Mr. Michaud, Mr. Mulvaney, Mr. Neugebauer, Mr. 
 Petri, Mr. Ribble, Mr. Rigell, Mr. Roe of Tennessee, Mr. Rooney, Mr. 
Schrader, Mr. Schweikert, Mr. Thompson of Pennsylvania, Mr. Womack, Ms. 
   Bera, Mr. Daines, Mr. DeSantis, Mr. Rodney Davis of Illinois, Mr. 
   Rokita, Mr. Hultgren, and Mr. Johnson of Georgia) introduced the 
     following bill; which was referred to the Committee on House 
                             Administration

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
To provide that Members of Congress may not receive pay after October 1 
  of any fiscal year in which Congress has not approved a concurrent 
 resolution on the budget and passed the regular appropriations bills.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``No Budget, No Pay Act''.

SEC. 2. DEFINITION.

    In this section, the term ``Member of Congress''--
            (1) has the meaning given under section 2106 of title 5, 
        United States Code; and
            (2) does not include the Vice President.

SEC. 3. TIMELY APPROVAL OF CONCURRENT RESOLUTION ON THE BUDGET AND THE 
              APPROPRIATIONS BILLS.

    If both Houses of Congress have not approved a concurrent 
resolution on the budget as described under section 301 of the 
Congressional Budget and Impoundment Control Act of 1974 (2 U.S.C. 632) 
for a fiscal year before October 1 of that fiscal year and have not 
passed all the regular appropriations bills for the next fiscal year 
before October 1 of that fiscal year, the pay of each Member of 
Congress may not be paid for each day following that October 1 until 
the date on which both Houses of Congress approve a concurrent 
resolution on the budget for that fiscal year and all the regular 
appropriations bills.

SEC. 4. NO PAY WITHOUT CONCURRENT RESOLUTION ON THE BUDGET AND THE 
              APPROPRIATIONS BILLS.

    (a) In General.--Notwithstanding any other provision of law, no 
funds may be appropriated or otherwise be made available from the 
United States Treasury for the pay of any Member of Congress during any 
period determined by the Chairpersons of the Committee on the Budget 
and the Committee on Appropriations of the Senate or the Chairpersons 
of the Committee on the Budget and the Committee on Appropriations of 
the House of Representatives under section 5.
    (b) No Retroactive Pay.--A Member of Congress may not receive pay 
for any period determined by the Chairpersons of the Committee on the 
Budget and the Committee on Appropriations of the Senate or the 
Chairpersons of the Committee on the Budget and the Committee on 
Appropriations of the House of Representatives under section 5, at any 
time after the end of that period.

SEC. 5. DETERMINATIONS.

    (a) Senate.--
            (1) Request for certifications.--On October 1 of each year, 
        the Secretary of the Senate shall submit a request to the 
        Chairpersons of the Committee on the Budget and the Committee 
        on Appropriations of the Senate for certification of 
        determinations made under paragraphs (2) (A) and (B).
            (2) Determinations.--The Chairpersons of the Committee on 
        the Budget and the Committee on Appropriations of the Senate 
        shall--
                    (A) on October 1 of each year, make a determination 
                of whether Congress is in compliance with section 3 and 
                whether Senators may not be paid under that section;
                    (B) determine the period of days following each 
                October 1 that Senators may not be paid under section 
                3; and
                    (C) provide timely certification of the 
                determinations under subparagraphs (A) and (B) upon the 
                request of the Secretary of the Senate.
    (b) House of Representatives.--
            (1) Request for certifications.--On October 1 of each year, 
        the Chief Administrative Officer of the House of 
        Representatives shall submit a request to the Chairpersons of 
        the Committee on the Budget and the Committee on Appropriations 
        of the House of Representatives for certification of 
        determinations made under paragraphs (2) (A) and (B).
            (2) Determinations.--The Chairpersons of the Committee on 
        the Budget and the Committee on Appropriations of the House of 
        Representatives shall--
                    (A) on October 1 of each year, make a determination 
                of whether Congress is in compliance with section 3 and 
                whether Members of the House of Representatives may not 
                be paid under that section;
                    (B) determine the period of days following each 
                October 1 that Members of the House of Representatives 
                may not be paid under section 3; and
                    (C) provide timely certification of the 
                determinations under subparagraphs (A) and (B) upon the 
                request of the Chief Administrative Officer of the 
                House of Representatives.

SEC. 6. EFFECTIVE DATE.

    This section shall take effect on February 1, 2015.
                                 <all>
