
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H. Res. 258 Introduced in House (IH)]

113th CONGRESS
  1st Session
H. RES. 258

  Providing for the consideration of the bill (H.R. 1565) to protect 
  Second Amendment rights, ensure that all individuals who should be 
  prohibited from buying a firearm are listed in the National Instant 
    Criminal Background Check System, and provide a responsible and 
                  consistent background check process.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                             June 12, 2013

Ms. Esty submitted the following resolution; which was referred to the 
                           Committee on Rules

_______________________________________________________________________

                               RESOLUTION


 
  Providing for the consideration of the bill (H.R. 1565) to protect 
  Second Amendment rights, ensure that all individuals who should be 
  prohibited from buying a firearm are listed in the National Instant 
    Criminal Background Check System, and provide a responsible and 
                  consistent background check process.

    Resolved, That immediately upon adoption of this resolution the 
Speaker shall, pursuant to clause 2(b) of rule XVIII, declare the House 
resolved into the Committee of the Whole House on the state of the 
Union for consideration of the bill (H.R. 1565) to protect Second 
Amendment rights, ensure that all individuals who should be prohibited 
from buying a firearm are listed in the National Instant Criminal 
Background Check System, and provide a responsible and consistent 
background check process. The first reading of the bill shall be 
dispensed with. All points of order against consideration of the bill 
are waived. General debate shall be confined to the bill and shall not 
exceed one hour equally divided and controlled by the chair and ranking 
minority member of the Committee on the Judiciary. After general debate 
the bill shall be considered for amendment under the five-minute rule. 
All points of order against provisions in the bill are waived. At the 
conclusion of consideration of the bill for amendment the Committee 
shall rise and report the bill to the House with such amendments as may 
have been adopted. The previous question shall be considered as ordered 
on the bill and amendments thereto to final passage without intervening 
motion except one motion to recommit with or without instructions. If 
the Committee of the Whole rises and reports that it has come to no 
resolution on the bill, then on the next legislative day the House 
shall, immediately after the third daily order of business under clause 
1 of rule XIV, resolve into the Committee of the Whole for further 
consideration of the bill.
    Sec. 2.  Clause 1(c) of rule XIX shall not apply to the 
consideration of H.R. 1565.
                                 <all>
