
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 2392 Introduced in House (IH)]

113th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                H. R. 2392

  For the relief of certain aliens who were aboard the Golden Venture.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                             June 14, 2013

   Mr. Smith of New Jersey introduced the following bill; which was 
               referred to the Committee on the Judiciary

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
  For the relief of certain aliens who were aboard the Golden Venture.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. ADJUSTMENT OF STATUS FOR CERTAIN ALIENS WHO WERE ABOARD THE 
              GOLDEN VENTURE.

    (a) In General.--Notwithstanding subsections (a) and (b) of section 
201 of the Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1151), the 
Secretary of Homeland Security shall adjust the status of each alien 
referred to in subsection (b) to that of an alien lawfully admitted for 
permanent residence, if the alien--
            (1) applies for such adjustment;
            (2) has been physically present in the United States for at 
        least 1 year and is physically present in the United States on 
        the date the application for such adjustment is filed;
            (3) is admissible to the United States as an immigrant 
        under the Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1101 et 
        seq.), except that, for the purposes of determining 
        admissibility under this paragraph, the grounds for 
        inadmissibility specified in paragraphs (4), (5), and (7)(A) 
        and subparagraphs (A), (D), and (E) of paragraph (6) of section 
        212(a) of the Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 
        1182(a)) shall not apply; and
            (4) pays a fee (determined by the Secretary of Homeland 
        Security) for the processing of such application.
    (b) Aliens Eligible for Adjustment of Status.--The adjustment of 
status provided for under subsection (a) shall apply to the following 
aliens:
            (1) Zhang Xue Feng.
            (2) Zhu Zhai Yong.
            (3) Shi Gong.
            (4) He Ar Ming.
            (5) Dong Su Gi.
            (6) Zhou Xin Siong.
            (7) Zheng Shi Ji.
            (8) Liu Bao Jin.
            (9) Lin Yeng Ming.
            (10) Zou Xue Can.
            (11) Yong Lu Xue.
            (12) Liu Jia Wen.
            (13) Cheng Son Ching.
            (14) Chen Xue Dian.
            (15) Dek Fun Lin.
            (16) Wang Dar Hua.
            (17) Chung Seng Chow.
            (18) Lin Rui Kang.
            (19) Dong Sou Xing.
            (20) Ni Zhou Hua.
    (c) Offset in Number of Visas Available.--Upon each granting to an 
alien of the status of having been lawfully admitted for permanent 
residence under this section, the Secretary of State shall instruct the 
proper officer to reduce by 1, during the current or next following 
fiscal year, the total number of immigrant visas that are made 
available to natives of the country of the alien's birth under section 
203(a) of the Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1153(a)) or, if 
applicable, the total number of immigrant visas that are made available 
to natives of the country of the alien's birth under section 202(e) of 
such Act (8 U.S.C. 1152(e)).
    (d) Application of Immigration and Nationality Act Provisions.--The 
definitions contained in the Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 
1101 et seq.) shall apply in the administration of this section. The 
fact that an alien may be eligible to be granted the status of having 
been lawfully admitted for permanent residence under this section shall 
not preclude the alien from seeking such status under any other 
provision of law for which the alien may be eligible.
                                 <all>
