
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 1673 Reported in House (RH)]

                                                  Union Calendar No. 87
113th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                H. R. 1673

                      [Report No. 113-122, Part I]

     To provide for the transfer of certain public land currently 
  administered by the Bureau of Land Management to the administrative 
 jurisdiction of the Secretary of the Navy for inclusion in Naval Air 
    Weapons Station China Lake, California, and for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                             April 23, 2013

  Mr. McCarthy of California introduced the following bill; which was 
referred to the Committee on Natural Resources, and in addition to the 
Committee on Armed Services, for a period to be subsequently determined 
 by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of such provisions as 
        fall within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned

                             June 24, 2013

   Reported from the Committee on Natural Resources with an amendment
 [Strike out all after the enacting clause and insert the part printed 
                               in italic]

                             June 24, 2013

The Committee on Armed Services discharged; committed to the Committee 
 of the Whole House on the State of the Union and ordered to be printed
 [For text of introduced bill, see copy of bill as introduced on April 
                               23, 2013]


_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
     To provide for the transfer of certain public land currently 
  administered by the Bureau of Land Management to the administrative 
 jurisdiction of the Secretary of the Navy for inclusion in Naval Air 
    Weapons Station China Lake, California, and for other purposes.


 


    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Naval Air Weapons Station China Lake 
Security Enhancement Act''.

SEC. 2. TRANSFER OF ADMINISTRATIVE JURISDICTION, NAVAL AIR WEAPONS 
              STATION CHINA LAKE, CALIFORNIA.

    (a) Transfer Required.--Not later than September 30, 2014, the 
Secretary of the Interior shall transfer to the administrative 
jurisdiction of the Secretary of the Navy certain public land 
administered by the Bureau of Land Management in Inyo, Kern, and San 
Bernardino Counties, California, consisting of approximately 1,045,000 
acres in Inyo, Kern, and San Bernardino Counties, California, as 
generally depicted on the map titled ``Naval Air Weapons Station China 
Lake Withdrawal - Renewal'' and dated 2012.
    (b) Use of Transferred Land.--Upon the receipt of the land under 
subsection (a), the Secretary of the Navy shall include the land as 
part of the Naval Air Weapons Station China Lake, California, and 
authorize use of the land for military purposes.
    (c) Legal Description and Map.--
            (1) Preparation and publication.--The Secretary of the 
        Interior shall publish in the Federal Register a legal 
        description and map of the public land to be transferred under 
        subsection (a).
            (2) Force of law.--The legal description and map filed 
        under paragraph (1) shall have the same force and effect as if 
        included in this Act, except that the Secretary of the Interior 
        may correct errors in the legal description and map.
    (d) Reimbursement of Costs.--The transfer required by subsection 
(a) shall be made without reimbursement, except that the Secretary of 
the Navy shall reimburse the Secretary of the Interior for any costs 
incurred by the Secretary of the Interior to prepare the legal 
description and map under subsection (c).

SEC. 3. WATER RIGHTS.

    (a) Water Rights.--Nothing in this Act shall be construed--
            (1) to establish a reservation in favor of the United 
        States with respect to any water or water right on lands 
        transferred by this Act; or
            (2) to authorize the appropriation of water on lands 
        transferred by this Act except in accordance with applicable 
        State law.
    (b) Effect on Previously Acquired or Reserved Water Rights.--This 
section shall not be construed to affect any water rights acquired or 
reserved by the United States before the date of the enactment of this 
Act.

SEC. 4. WITHDRAWAL.

    Subject to valid existing rights, the public land to be transferred 
under section 2 is withdrawn from all forms of appropriation under the 
public land laws, including the mining laws and geothermal leasing 
laws, so long as the lands remain under the administrative jurisdiction 
of the Secretary of the Army.
                                                  Union Calendar No. 87

113th CONGRESS

  1st Session

                               H. R. 1673

                      [Report No. 113-122, Part I]

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL

     To provide for the transfer of certain public land currently 
  administered by the Bureau of Land Management to the administrative 
 jurisdiction of the Secretary of the Navy for inclusion in Naval Air 
    Weapons Station China Lake, California, and for other purposes.

_______________________________________________________________________

                             June 24, 2013

   Reported from the Committee on Natural Resources with an amendment

                             June 24, 2013

The Committee on Armed Services discharged; committed to the Committee 
 of the Whole House on the State of the Union and ordered to be printed
