
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H. Con. Res. 125 Engrossed in House (EH)]

113th CONGRESS
  2d Session
H. CON. RES. 125

_______________________________________________________________________

                         CONCURRENT RESOLUTION

    Resolved by the House of Representatives (the Senate concurring), 
That when the House adjourns on any legislative day from Friday, 
December 12, 2014, through Wednesday, December 31, 2014, on a motion 
offered pursuant to this concurrent resolution by its Majority Leader 
or his designee, it stand adjourned until 1 p.m. on Friday, January 2, 
2015, or until the time of any reassembly


              

 pursuant to section 2 of this concurrent resolution, whichever occurs 
first; and that when the House adjourns on the legislative day of 
Friday, January 2, 2015, on a motion offered pursuant to this 
concurrent resolution by its Majority Leader or his designee, it stand 
adjourned sine die, or until the time of any reassembly pursuant to 
section 2 of this concurrent resolution, whichever occurs first; and 
that when the Senate recesses or adjourns on any day from Friday, 
December 12, 2014, through Friday, January 2, 2015, on a motion offered 
pursuant to this concurrent resolution by its Majority Leader or his 
designee, it stand adjourned sine die, or until the time of any 
reassembly pursuant to section 3 of this concurrent resolution, 
whichever occurs first.
    Sec. 2. (a) The Speaker or his designee, after consultation with 
the Minority Leader of the House, shall notify Members of the House to 
reassemble at such place and time as he may designate if, in his 
opinion, the public interest shall warrant it.
    (b) After reassembling pursuant to subsection (a), when the House 
adjourns on a motion offered pursuant to this subsection by its 
Majority Leader or his designee, the House shall again stand adjourned 
pursuant to the first section of this concurrent resolution.
    Sec. 3. (a) The Majority Leader of the Senate or his designee, 
after concurrence with the Minority Leader of the Senate, shall notify 
the Members of the Senate to reassemble at such place and time as he 
may designate if, in his opinion, the public interest shall warrant it.
    (b) After reassembling pursuant to subsection (a), when the Senate 
adjourns on a motion offered pursuant to this subsection by its 
Majority Leader or his designee, the Senate shall again stand adjourned 
pursuant to the first section of this concurrent resolution.

            Passed the House of Representatives December 12, 2014.

            Attest:

                                                                 Clerk.
113th CONGRESS

  2d Session

                            H. CON. RES. 125

_______________________________________________________________________

                         CONCURRENT RESOLUTION

Providing for the sine die adjournment of the second session of the One 
                      Hundred Thirteenth Congress.
