
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[S. 2580 Introduced in Senate (IS)]

113th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                S. 2580

To redesignate the Ocmulgee National Monument in the State of Georgia, 
    to revise the boundary of that monument, and for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                             July 10, 2014

 Mr. Isakson (for himself and Mr. Chambliss) introduced the following 
bill; which was read twice and referred to the Committee on Energy and 
                           Natural Resources

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
To redesignate the Ocmulgee National Monument in the State of Georgia, 
    to revise the boundary of that monument, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Ocmulgee Mounds National Historical 
Park Boundary Revision Act of 2014''.

SEC. 2. DEFINITIONS.

    In this Act:
            (1) Historical park.--The term ``Historical Park'' means 
        the Ocmulgee Mounds National Historical Park in the State of 
        Georgia, as redesignated by section 3.
            (2) Map.--The term ``map'' means the map entitled [___], 
        numbered [___], and dated [____].
            (3) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary 
        of the Interior.

SEC. 3. OCMULGEE MOUNDS NATIONAL HISTORICAL PARK.

    (a) Redesignation.--The Ocmulgee National Monument established 
pursuant to the Act of June 14, 1934 (48 Stat. 958, chapter 519), shall 
be known and designated as ``Ocmulgee Mounds National Historical 
Park''.
    (b) References.--Any reference in a law, map, regulation, document, 
paper, or other record of the United States to ``Ocmulgee National 
Monument'' shall be deemed to be a reference to ``Ocmulgee Mounds 
National Historical Park''.

SEC. 4. BOUNDARY ADJUSTMENT.

    (a) In General.--The boundary of the Historical Park is revised to 
include approximately 2,100 acres, as generally depicted on the map.
    (b) Availability of Map.--The map shall be on file and available 
for public inspection in the appropriate offices of the National Park 
Service.

SEC. 5. LAND ACQUISITION.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary may acquire land or interests in 
land within the boundary of the Historical Park by donation, purchase 
from a willing seller with donated or appropriated funds, or exchange.
    (b) Administration.--The Secretary shall administer any land 
acquired under subsection (a) as part of the Historical Park in 
accordance with applicable laws and regulations.

SEC. 6. OCMULGEE RIVER CORRIDOR SPECIAL RESOURCE STUDY.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary shall conduct a special resource 
study of the Ocmulgee River corridor between the cities of Macon, 
Georgia, and Hawkinsville, Georgia, to determine--
            (1) the national significance of the study area;
            (2) the suitability and feasibility of adding land in the 
        study area to the National Park System; and
            (3) the methods and means for the protection and 
        interpretation of the study area by the National Park Service, 
        other Federal, State, or local government entities, or private 
        or nonprofit organizations.
    (b) Criteria.--The Secretary shall conduct the study under 
subsection (a) in accordance with section 8 of Public Law 91-383 (16 
U.S.C. 1a-5) (commonly known as the ``National Park System General 
Authorities Act'').
    (c) Report.--Not later than 3 years after the date on which funds 
are made available to carry out this section, the Secretary shall 
submit to the Committee on Natural Resources of the House of 
Representatives and the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of 
the Senate a report containing--
            (1) the results of the study; and
            (2) any findings, conclusions, and recommendations of the 
        Secretary.
                                 <all>
