
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.J. Res. 59 Engrossed Amendment House (EAH)]

                In the House of Representatives, U. S.,

                    September 29 (legislative day, September 28), 2013.

    Resolved, That the House agree to the amendment of the Senate to the 
resolution (H.J. Res. 59) entitled ``Joint Resolution making continuing 
appropriations for fiscal year 2014, and for other purposes.'', with the 
following

                 HOUSE AMENDMENTS TO SENATE AMENDMENT:

 (1)Page 4, line 21 of the Senate engrossed amendment, in the matter proposed to 
be inserted by the Senate amendment, strike section 105 and all that follows 
through section 129 and insert the following (renumbering succeeding sections 
accordingly):

    Sec. 105.  Appropriations made and authority granted pursuant to 
this joint resolution shall cover all obligations or expenditures 
incurred for any project or activity during the period for which funds 
or authority for such project or activity are available under this 
joint resolution.
    Sec. 106.  Unless otherwise provided for in this joint resolution 
or in the applicable appropriations Act for fiscal year 2014, 
appropriations and funds made available and authority granted pursuant 
to this joint resolution shall be available until whichever of the 
following first occurs: (1) the enactment into law of an appropriation 
for any project or activity provided for in this joint resolution; (2) 
the enactment into law of the applicable appropriations Act for fiscal 
year 2014 without any provision for such project or activity; or (3) 
December 15, 2013.
    Sec. 107.  Expenditures made pursuant to this joint resolution 
shall be charged to the applicable appropriation, fund, or 
authorization whenever a bill in which such applicable appropriation, 
fund, or authorization is contained is enacted into law.
    Sec. 108.  Appropriations made and funds made available by or 
authority granted pursuant to this joint resolution may be used without 
regard to the time limitations for submission and approval of 
apportionments set forth in section 1513 of title 31, United States 
Code, but nothing in this joint resolution may be construed to waive 
any other provision of law governing the apportionment of funds.
    Sec. 109.  Notwithstanding any other provision of this joint 
resolution, except section 106, for those programs that would otherwise 
have high initial rates of operation or complete distribution of 
appropriations at the beginning of fiscal year 2014 because of 
distributions of funding to States, foreign countries, grantees, or 
others, such high initial rates of operation or complete distribution 
shall not be made, and no grants shall be awarded for such programs 
funded by this joint resolution that would impinge on final funding 
prerogatives.
    Sec. 110.  This joint resolution shall be implemented so that only 
the most limited funding action of that permitted in the joint 
resolution shall be taken in order to provide for continuation of 
projects and activities.
    Sec. 111. (a) For entitlements and other mandatory payments whose 
budget authority was provided in appropriations Acts for fiscal year 
2013, and for activities under the Food and Nutrition Act of 2008, 
activities shall be continued at the rate to maintain program levels 
under current law, under the authority and conditions provided in the 
applicable appropriations Act for fiscal year 2013, to be continued 
through the date specified in section 106(3).
    (b) Notwithstanding section 106, obligations for mandatory payments 
due on or about the first day of any month that begins after October 
2013 but not later than 30 days after the date specified in section 
106(3) may continue to be made, and funds shall be available for such 
payments.
    Sec. 112.  Amounts made available under section 101 for civilian 
personnel compensation and benefits in each department and agency may 
be apportioned up to the rate for operations necessary to avoid 
furloughs within such department or agency, consistent with the 
applicable appropriations Act for fiscal year 2013, except that such 
authority provided under this section shall not be used until after the 
department or agency has taken all necessary actions to reduce or defer 
non-personnel-related administrative expenses.
    Sec. 113.  Funds appropriated by this joint resolution may be 
obligated and expended notwithstanding section 10 of Public Law 91-672 
(22 U.S.C. 2412), section 15 of the State Department Basic Authorities 
Act of 1956 (22 U.S.C. 2680), section 313 of the Foreign Relations 
Authorization Act, Fiscal Years 1994 and 1995 (22 U.S.C. 6212), and 
section 504(a)(1) of the National Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 
3094(a)(1)).
    Sec. 114. (a) Each amount incorporated by reference in this joint 
resolution that was previously designated by the Congress for Overseas 
Contingency Operations/Global War on Terrorism pursuant to section 
251(b)(2)(A) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act 
of 1985 or as being for disaster relief pursuant to section 
251(b)(2)(D) of such Act is designated by the Congress for Overseas 
Contingency Operations/Global War on Terrorism pursuant to section 
251(b)(2)(A) of such Act or as being for disaster relief pursuant to 
section 251(b)(2)(D) of such Act, respectively.
    (b) Of the amounts made available by section 101 for ``Social 
Security Administration, Limitation on Administrative Expenses'' for 
the cost associated with continuing disability reviews under titles II 
and XVI of the Social Security Act and for the cost associated with 
conducting redeterminations of eligibility under title XVI of the 
Social Security Act, $273,000,000 is provided to meet the terms of 
section 251(b)(2)(B)(ii)(III) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency 
Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended, and $469,639,000 is additional 
new budget authority specified for purposes of section 251(b)(2)(B) of 
such Act.
    (c) Section 5 of Public Law 113-6 shall apply to amounts designated 
in subsection (a) for Overseas Contingency Operations/Global War on 
Terrorism.
    Sec. 115.  Section 3003 of division G of Public Law 113-6 shall be 
applied to funds appropriated by this joint resolution by substituting 
``fiscal year 2014'' for ``fiscal year 2013'' each place it appears.
    Sec. 116.  Section 408 of the Food for Peace Act (7 U.S.C. 1736b) 
shall be applied by substituting the date specified in section 106(3) 
of this joint resolution for ``December 31, 2012''.
    Sec. 117.  Amounts made available under section 101 for 
``Department of Commerce--National Oceanic and Atmospheric 
Administration--Procurement, Acquisition and Construction'' may be 
apportioned up to the rate for operations necessary to maintain the 
planned launch schedules for the Joint Polar Satellite System and the 
Geostationary Operational Environmental Satellite system.
    Sec. 118.  The authority provided by sections 1205 and 1206 of the 
National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2012 (Public Law 
112-81) shall continue in effect, notwithstanding subsection (h) of 
section 1206, through the earlier of the date specified in section 
106(3) of this joint resolution or the date of the enactment of an Act 
authorizing appropriations for fiscal year 2014 for military activities 
of the Department of Defense.
    Sec. 119.  Section 14704 of title 40, United States Code, shall be 
applied to amounts made available by this joint resolution by 
substituting the date specified in section 106(3) of this joint 
resolution for ``October 1, 2012''.
    Sec. 120.  Notwithstanding any other provision of this joint 
resolution, except section 106, the District of Columbia may expend 
local funds under the heading ``District of Columbia Funds'' for such 
programs and activities under title IV of H.R. 2786 (113th Congress), 
as reported by the Committee on Appropriations of the House of 
Representatives, at the rate set forth under ``District of Columbia 
Funds--Summary of Expenses'' as included in the Fiscal Year 2014 Budget 
Request Act of 2013 (D.C. Act 20-127), as modified as of the date of 
the enactment of this joint resolution.
    Sec. 121.  Notwithstanding section 101, amounts are provided for 
``The Judiciary--Courts of Appeals, District Courts, and Other Judicial 
Services--Defender Services'' at a rate for operations of 
$1,012,000,000.
    Sec. 122.  For the period covered by this joint resolution, section 
550(b) of Public Law 109-295 (6 U.S.C. 121 note) shall be applied by 
substituting the date specified in section 106(3) of this joint 
resolution for ``October 4, 2013''.
    Sec. 123.  The authority provided by section 532 of Public Law 109-
295 shall continue in effect through the date specified in section 
106(3) of this joint resolution.
    Sec. 124.  The authority provided by section 831 of the Homeland 
Security Act of 2002 (6 U.S.C. 391) shall continue in effect through 
the date specified in section 106(3) of this joint resolution.
    Sec. 125. (a) Any amounts made available pursuant to section 101 
for ``Department of Homeland Security--U.S. Customs and Border 
Protection--Salaries and Expenses'', ``Department of Homeland 
Security--U.S. Customs and Border Protection--Border Security Fencing, 
Infrastructure, and Technology'', and ``Department of Homeland 
Security--U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement--Salaries and 
Expenses'' shall be obligated at a rate for operations as necessary to 
respectively--
            (1) sustain the staffing levels of U.S. Customs and Border 
        Protection Officers, equivalent to the staffing levels achieved 
        on September 30, 2013, and comply with the last proviso under 
        the heading ``Department of Homeland Security--U.S. Customs and 
        Border Protection--Salaries and Expenses'' in division D of 
        Public Law 113-6;
            (2) sustain border security operations, including 
        sustaining the operation of Tethered Aerostat Radar Systems; 
        and
            (3) sustain the staffing levels of U.S. Immigration and 
        Customs Enforcement agents, equivalent to the staffing levels 
        achieved on September 30, 2013, and comply with the sixth 
        proviso under the heading ``Department of Homeland Security--
        U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement--Salaries and 
        Expenses'' in division D of Public Law 113-6.
    (b) The Secretary of Homeland Security shall notify the Committees 
on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the Senate on 
each use of the authority provided in this section.
    Sec. 126.  In addition to the amount otherwise provided by section 
101 for ``Department of the Interior--Department-wide Programs--
Wildland Fire Management'', there is appropriated $36,000,000 for an 
additional amount for fiscal year 2014, to remain available until 
expended, for urgent wildland fire suppression activities:  Provided, 
That of the funds provided, $15,000,000 is for burned area 
rehabilitation:  Provided further, That such funds shall only become 
available if funds previously provided for wildland fire suppression 
will be exhausted imminently and the Secretary of the Interior notifies 
the Committees on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and 
the Senate in writing of the need for these additional funds:  Provided 
further, That such funds are also available for transfer to other 
appropriations accounts to repay amounts previously transferred for 
wildfire suppression.
    Sec. 127.  In addition to the amount otherwise provided by section 
101 for ``Department of Agriculture--Forest Service--Wildland Fire 
Management'', there is appropriated $600,000,000 for an additional 
amount for fiscal year 2014, to remain available until expended, for 
urgent wildland fire suppression activities:  Provided, That such funds 
shall only become available if funds previously provided for wildland 
fire suppression will be exhausted imminently and the Secretary of 
Agriculture notifies the Committees on Appropriations of the House of 
Representatives and the Senate in writing of the need for these 
additional funds:  Provided further, That such funds are also available 
for transfer to other appropriations accounts to repay amounts 
previously transferred for wildfire suppression.
    Sec. 128.  The authority provided by section 347 of the Department 
of the Interior and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 1999 (as 
contained in section 101(e) of division A of Public Law 105-277; 16 
U.S.C. 2104 note) shall continue in effect through the date specified 
in section 106(3) of this joint resolution.
    Sec. 129. (a) The authority provided by subsection (m)(3) of 
section 8162 of the Department of Defense Appropriations Act, 2000 (40 
U.S.C. 8903 note; Public Law 106-79), as amended, shall continue in 
effect through the date specified in section 106(3) of this joint 
resolution.
    (b) For the period covered by this joint resolution, the authority 
provided by the provisos under the heading ``Dwight D. Eisenhower 
Memorial Commission--Capital Construction'' in division E of Public Law 
112-74 shall not be in effect.
    Sec. 130.  Section 1244(c)(3) of the National Defense Authorization 
Act for Fiscal Year 2008 (8 U.S.C. 1157 note) is amended by adding at 
the end the following:
                    ``(C) Fiscal year 2014.--
                            ``(i) In general.--Except as provided in 
                        clauses (ii) and (iii), the total number of 
                        principal aliens who may be provided special 
                        immigrant status under this section in fiscal 
                        year 2014 during the period ending on December 
                        15, 2013 shall be the sum of--
                                    ``(I) the number of aliens 
                                described in subsection (b) whose 
                                application for special immigrant 
                                status under this section is pending on 
                                September 30, 2013; and
                                    ``(II) 2,000.
                            ``(ii) Employment period.--The 1-year 
                        period during which the principal alien is 
                        required to have been employed by or on behalf 
                        of the United States Government in Iraq under 
                        subsection (b)(1)(B) shall begin on or after 
                        March 20, 2003, and end on or before September 
                        30, 2013.
                            ``(iii) Application deadline.--The 
                        principal alien seeking special immigrant 
                        status under this subparagraph shall apply to 
                        the Chief of Mission in accordance with 
                        subsection (b)(4) not later than December 15, 
                        2013.''.
    Sec. 131. (a) Repeal of Medical Device Excise Tax.--Chapter 32 of 
the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 is amended by striking subchapter E.
    (b) Conforming Amendments.--(1) Subsection (a) of section 4221 of 
such Code is amended by striking the last sentence.
    (2) Paragraph (2) of section 6416(b) of such Code is amended by 
striking the last sentence.
    (3) The table of subchapters for chapter 32 of such Code is amended 
by striking the item relating to subchapter E.
    (c) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this section shall 
apply to sales after the date of the enactment of this joint 
resolution.

 (2)Page 5, line 1 of the Senate engrossed amendment, in the matter proposed to 
be inserted by the Senate amendment, strike section 106 and all that follows 
through section 129 and insert the following (renumbering succeeding sections 
accordingly):

    Sec. 106.  Unless otherwise provided for in this joint resolution 
or in the applicable appropriations Act for fiscal year 2014, 
appropriations and funds made available and authority granted pursuant 
to this joint resolution shall be available until whichever of the 
following first occurs: (1) the enactment into law of an appropriation 
for any project or activity provided for in this joint resolution; (2) 
the enactment into law of the applicable appropriations Act for fiscal 
year 2014 without any provision for such project or activity; or (3) 
December 15, 2013.
    Sec. 107.  Expenditures made pursuant to this joint resolution 
shall be charged to the applicable appropriation, fund, or 
authorization whenever a bill in which such applicable appropriation, 
fund, or authorization is contained is enacted into law.
    Sec. 108.  Appropriations made and funds made available by or 
authority granted pursuant to this joint resolution may be used without 
regard to the time limitations for submission and approval of 
apportionments set forth in section 1513 of title 31, United States 
Code, but nothing in this joint resolution may be construed to waive 
any other provision of law governing the apportionment of funds.
    Sec. 109.  Notwithstanding any other provision of this joint 
resolution, except section 106, for those programs that would otherwise 
have high initial rates of operation or complete distribution of 
appropriations at the beginning of fiscal year 2014 because of 
distributions of funding to States, foreign countries, grantees, or 
others, such high initial rates of operation or complete distribution 
shall not be made, and no grants shall be awarded for such programs 
funded by this joint resolution that would impinge on final funding 
prerogatives.
    Sec. 110.  This joint resolution shall be implemented so that only 
the most limited funding action of that permitted in the joint 
resolution shall be taken in order to provide for continuation of 
projects and activities.
    Sec. 111. (a) For entitlements and other mandatory payments whose 
budget authority was provided in appropriations Acts for fiscal year 
2013, and for activities under the Food and Nutrition Act of 2008, 
activities shall be continued at the rate to maintain program levels 
under current law, under the authority and conditions provided in the 
applicable appropriations Act for fiscal year 2013, to be continued 
through the date specified in section 106(3).
    (b) Notwithstanding section 106, obligations for mandatory payments 
due on or about the first day of any month that begins after October 
2013 but not later than 30 days after the date specified in section 
106(3) may continue to be made, and funds shall be available for such 
payments.
    Sec. 112.  Amounts made available under section 101 for civilian 
personnel compensation and benefits in each department and agency may 
be apportioned up to the rate for operations necessary to avoid 
furloughs within such department or agency, consistent with the 
applicable appropriations Act for fiscal year 2013, except that such 
authority provided under this section shall not be used until after the 
department or agency has taken all necessary actions to reduce or defer 
non-personnel-related administrative expenses.
    Sec. 113.  Funds appropriated by this joint resolution may be 
obligated and expended notwithstanding section 10 of Public Law 91-672 
(22 U.S.C. 2412), section 15 of the State Department Basic Authorities 
Act of 1956 (22 U.S.C. 2680), section 313 of the Foreign Relations 
Authorization Act, Fiscal Years 1994 and 1995 (22 U.S.C. 6212), and 
section 504(a)(1) of the National Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 
3094(a)(1)).
    Sec. 114. (a) Each amount incorporated by reference in this joint 
resolution that was previously designated by the Congress for Overseas 
Contingency Operations/Global War on Terrorism pursuant to section 
251(b)(2)(A) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act 
of 1985 or as being for disaster relief pursuant to section 
251(b)(2)(D) of such Act is designated by the Congress for Overseas 
Contingency Operations/Global War on Terrorism pursuant to section 
251(b)(2)(A) of such Act or as being for disaster relief pursuant to 
section 251(b)(2)(D) of such Act, respectively.
    (b) Of the amounts made available by section 101 for ``Social 
Security Administration, Limitation on Administrative Expenses'' for 
the cost associated with continuing disability reviews under titles II 
and XVI of the Social Security Act and for the cost associated with 
conducting redeterminations of eligibility under title XVI of the 
Social Security Act, $273,000,000 is provided to meet the terms of 
section 251(b)(2)(B)(ii)(III) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency 
Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended, and $469,639,000 is additional 
new budget authority specified for purposes of section 251(b)(2)(B) of 
such Act.
    (c) Section 5 of Public Law 113-6 shall apply to amounts designated 
in subsection (a) for Overseas Contingency Operations/Global War on 
Terrorism.
    Sec. 115.  Section 3003 of division G of Public Law 113-6 shall be 
applied to funds appropriated by this joint resolution by substituting 
``fiscal year 2014'' for ``fiscal year 2013'' each place it appears.
    Sec. 116.  Section 408 of the Food for Peace Act (7 U.S.C. 1736b) 
shall be applied by substituting the date specified in section 106(3) 
of this joint resolution for ``December 31, 2012''.
    Sec. 117.  Amounts made available under section 101 for 
``Department of Commerce--National Oceanic and Atmospheric 
Administration--Procurement, Acquisition and Construction'' may be 
apportioned up to the rate for operations necessary to maintain the 
planned launch schedules for the Joint Polar Satellite System and the 
Geostationary Operational Environmental Satellite system.
    Sec. 118.  The authority provided by sections 1205 and 1206 of the 
National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2012 (Public Law 
112-81) shall continue in effect, notwithstanding subsection (h) of 
section 1206, through the earlier of the date specified in section 
106(3) of this joint resolution or the date of the enactment of an Act 
authorizing appropriations for fiscal year 2014 for military activities 
of the Department of Defense.
    Sec. 119.  Section 14704 of title 40, United States Code, shall be 
applied to amounts made available by this joint resolution by 
substituting the date specified in section 106(3) of this joint 
resolution for ``October 1, 2012''.
    Sec. 120.  Notwithstanding any other provision of this joint 
resolution, except section 106, the District of Columbia may expend 
local funds under the heading ``District of Columbia Funds'' for such 
programs and activities under title IV of H.R. 2786 (113th Congress), 
as reported by the Committee on Appropriations of the House of 
Representatives, at the rate set forth under ``District of Columbia 
Funds--Summary of Expenses'' as included in the Fiscal Year 2014 Budget 
Request Act of 2013 (D.C. Act 20-127), as modified as of the date of 
the enactment of this joint resolution.
    Sec. 121.  Notwithstanding section 101, amounts are provided for 
``The Judiciary--Courts of Appeals, District Courts, and Other Judicial 
Services--Defender Services'' at a rate for operations of 
$1,012,000,000.
    Sec. 122.  For the period covered by this joint resolution, section 
550(b) of Public Law 109-295 (6 U.S.C. 121 note) shall be applied by 
substituting the date specified in section 106(3) of this joint 
resolution for ``October 4, 2013''.
    Sec. 123.  The authority provided by section 532 of Public Law 109-
295 shall continue in effect through the date specified in section 
106(3) of this joint resolution.
    Sec. 124.  The authority provided by section 831 of the Homeland 
Security Act of 2002 (6 U.S.C. 391) shall continue in effect through 
the date specified in section 106(3) of this joint resolution.
    Sec. 125. (a) Any amounts made available pursuant to section 101 
for ``Department of Homeland Security--U.S. Customs and Border 
Protection--Salaries and Expenses'', ``Department of Homeland 
Security--U.S. Customs and Border Protection--Border Security Fencing, 
Infrastructure, and Technology'', and ``Department of Homeland 
Security--U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement--Salaries and 
Expenses'' shall be obligated at a rate for operations as necessary to 
respectively--
            (1) sustain the staffing levels of U.S. Customs and Border 
        Protection Officers, equivalent to the staffing levels achieved 
        on September 30, 2013, and comply with the last proviso under 
        the heading ``Department of Homeland Security--U.S. Customs and 
        Border Protection--Salaries and Expenses'' in division D of 
        Public Law 113-6;
            (2) sustain border security operations, including 
        sustaining the operation of Tethered Aerostat Radar Systems; 
        and
            (3) sustain the staffing levels of U.S. Immigration and 
        Customs Enforcement agents, equivalent to the staffing levels 
        achieved on September 30, 2013, and comply with the sixth 
        proviso under the heading ``Department of Homeland Security--
        U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement--Salaries and 
        Expenses'' in division D of Public Law 113-6.
    (b) The Secretary of Homeland Security shall notify the Committees 
on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the Senate on 
each use of the authority provided in this section.
    Sec. 126.  In addition to the amount otherwise provided by section 
101 for ``Department of the Interior--Department-wide Programs--
Wildland Fire Management'', there is appropriated $36,000,000 for an 
additional amount for fiscal year 2014, to remain available until 
expended, for urgent wildland fire suppression activities:  Provided, 
That of the funds provided, $15,000,000 is for burned area 
rehabilitation:  Provided further, That such funds shall only become 
available if funds previously provided for wildland fire suppression 
will be exhausted imminently and the Secretary of the Interior notifies 
the Committees on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and 
the Senate in writing of the need for these additional funds:  Provided 
further, That such funds are also available for transfer to other 
appropriations accounts to repay amounts previously transferred for 
wildfire suppression.
    Sec. 127.  In addition to the amount otherwise provided by section 
101 for ``Department of Agriculture--Forest Service--Wildland Fire 
Management'', there is appropriated $600,000,000 for an additional 
amount for fiscal year 2014, to remain available until expended, for 
urgent wildland fire suppression activities:  Provided, That such funds 
shall only become available if funds previously provided for wildland 
fire suppression will be exhausted imminently and the Secretary of 
Agriculture notifies the Committees on Appropriations of the House of 
Representatives and the Senate in writing of the need for these 
additional funds:  Provided further, That such funds are also available 
for transfer to other appropriations accounts to repay amounts 
previously transferred for wildfire suppression.
    Sec. 128.  The authority provided by section 347 of the Department 
of the Interior and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 1999 (as 
contained in section 101(e) of division A of Public Law 105-277; 16 
U.S.C. 2104 note) shall continue in effect through the date specified 
in section 106(3) of this joint resolution.
    Sec. 129. (a) The authority provided by subsection (m)(3) of 
section 8162 of the Department of Defense Appropriations Act, 2000 (40 
U.S.C. 8903 note; Public Law 106-79), as amended, shall continue in 
effect through the date specified in section 106(3) of this joint 
resolution.
    (b) For the period covered by this joint resolution, the authority 
provided by the provisos under the heading ``Dwight D. Eisenhower 
Memorial Commission--Capital Construction'' in division E of Public Law 
112-74 shall not be in effect.
    Sec. 130.  Section 1244(c)(3) of the National Defense Authorization 
Act for Fiscal Year 2008 (8 U.S.C. 1157 note) is amended by adding at 
the end the following:
                    ``(C) Fiscal year 2014.--
                            ``(i) In general.--Except as provided in 
                        clauses (ii) and (iii), the total number of 
                        principal aliens who may be provided special 
                        immigrant status under this section in fiscal 
                        year 2014 during the period ending on December 
                        15, 2013 shall be the sum of--
                                    ``(I) the number of aliens 
                                described in subsection (b) whose 
                                application for special immigrant 
                                status under this section is pending on 
                                September 30, 2013; and
                                    ``(II) 2,000.
                            ``(ii) Employment period.--The 1-year 
                        period during which the principal alien is 
                        required to have been employed by or on behalf 
                        of the United States Government in Iraq under 
                        subsection (b)(1)(B) shall begin on or after 
                        March 20, 2003, and end on or before September 
                        30, 2013.
                            ``(iii) Application deadline.--The 
                        principal alien seeking special immigrant 
                        status under this subparagraph shall apply to 
                        the Chief of Mission in accordance with 
                        subsection (b)(4) not later than December 15, 
                        2013.''.
    Sec. 131. (a) One-year Delay in Implementation of ACA.--
Notwithstanding any other provision of law (including section 106 of 
this joint resolution), to the extent that a provision of ACA (or a 
change in law attributable to such a provision) is scheduled to and 
would otherwise take effect on a date during the period beginning on 
October 1, 2013, and ending on December 31, 2014, such provision (or 
change) shall not be effective during the 1-year period beginning on 
such date. During such 1-year period, the previous sentence shall be 
implemented in a manner as to continue the law as in effect as of the 
day before such date and shall take into account changes that would 
otherwise be made without regard to any such provision. Upon the 
expiration of such 1-year period, except as may otherwise be provided, 
the provisions of ACA (including the changes in law attributable to 
such provisions) shall be implemented as if the previous provisions of 
this subsection had not applied. Section 2713(a)(4) of the Public 
Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 300gg-13(a)(4)) shall not be effective 
for any period before January 1, 2015, with respect to the requirement 
for specific coverage for any sponsor of a group health plan (or, in 
the case of student health plans, the institution of higher education 
offering such plans), health insurance issuer, or individual opposing 
such requirement for coverage based on religious or moral objections.
    (b)(1) Internal Revenue Code of 1986.--In the case of any amendment 
made by ACA to the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, such amendment shall 
not apply to--
            (A) except as otherwise provided in this paragraph, taxable 
        years or plan years, as the case may be, beginning during 2014,
            (B) in the case of sections 36B and 4980H of such Code, 
        months beginning during 2014,
            (C) in the case of section 4191 of such Code, sales during 
        2014,
            (D) in the case of subchapter B of chapter 34 of such Code, 
        policy and plan years beginning during 2014,
            (E) in the case of section 5000B of such Code, services 
        performed during 2014,
            (F) in the case of sections 6055 and 6056 of such Code, 
        calendar year 2014,
            (G) in the case of any amendment made by ACA to section 
        6103 of such Code, disclosures during 2014,
            (H) in the case of any amendment made by section 9004 of 
        the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, distributions 
        made during 2014, and
            (I) in the case of any amendment made by section 1409 of 
        the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010, 
        transactions entered into during 2014.
    (2)(A) Annual Fees.--Sections 9008 and 9010 of the Patient 
Protection and Affordable Care Act shall not apply to annual payment 
dates (within the meaning of such sections) during 2014.
    (B) Patient-Centered Outcomes Research Trust Fund.--Notwithstanding 
any other provision of law, during 2014, no amount may be--
            (i) appropriated, credited, or otherwise transferred to the 
        Patient-Centered Outcomes Research Trust Fund, or
            (ii) transferred from such Fund.
Subsections (a) and (b)(1) shall not apply to section 9511 of the 
Internal Revenue Code of 1986.
    (3)(A) Coordination With Provisions Suspended Under This 
Subsection.--Subsection (a) shall not apply with respect to any 
provision of ACA to which this subsection applies.
    (B) Coordination With Provisions Not Suspended Under Subsection 
(a).--Paragraph (1) shall not apply to--
            (i) section 9815 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986,
            (ii) the amendments made by section 1322(h) of the Patient 
        Protection and Affordable Care Act, and
            (iii) the amendments made by section 1004(d) of the Health 
        Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010.
    (c) Implementation.--The Secretaries of Health and Human Services 
and the Treasury shall take such steps as may be required to implement 
the provisions of this section on a timely basis.
    (d) ACA Defined.--In this section, the term ``ACA'' means--
            (1) the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (Public 
        Law 111-148), including any amendment made by such Act; and
            (2) title I and subtitle B of title II of the Health Care 
        and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010 (Public Law 111-152), 
        including any amendment made by such title or subtitle.
            Attest:

                                                                 Clerk.
113th CONGRESS

  1st Session

                             H. J. Res. 59

_______________________________________________________________________

                  HOUSE AMENDMENTS TO SENATE AMENDMENT
