
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 2962 Introduced in House (IH)]

113th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                H. R. 2962

   To provide for independent research of the future resilience and 
      reliability of the Nation's electric power transmission and 
              distribution system, and for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                             August 1, 2013

 Mr. Payne (for himself, Mr. Thompson of Mississippi, Mr. King of New 
     York, Mr. Cartwright, Mr. Keating, Mr. Lance, Mr. Swalwell of 
  California, Mr. DeFazio, Mr. Andrews, Mr. Richmond, Ms. Clarke, Mr. 
  Sires, Mr. Clyburn, Mr. Pascrell, Mr. Rangel, Ms. Jackson Lee, Mr. 
Butterfield, Ms. Wilson of Florida, Mrs. Christensen, Ms. Gabbard, Mr. 
 Pallone, Mr. Franks of Arizona, Mr. Carson of Indiana, Mr. Peters of 
California, and Mr. O'Rourke) introduced the following bill; which was 
             referred to the Committee on Homeland Security

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
   To provide for independent research of the future resilience and 
      reliability of the Nation's electric power transmission and 
              distribution system, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Saving More American Resources Today 
Grid Study Act of 2013'' or the ``SMART Grid Study Act of 2013''.

SEC. 2. NATIONAL RESEARCH COUNCIL STUDY ON THE RESILIENCE AND 
              RELIABILITY OF THE NATION'S POWER GRID.

    (a) Independent Study.--Not later than 60 days after the date of 
the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Homeland Security, and the 
heads of other departments and agencies, as necessary, shall enter into 
an agreement with the National Research Council to conduct research of 
the future resilience and reliability of the Nation's electric power 
transmission and distribution system. The research under this 
subsection shall be known as the ``Saving More American Resources Today 
Study'' or the ``SMART Study''. In conducting such research, the 
National Research Council shall--
            (1) research the options for improving the Nation's ability 
        to expand and strengthen the capabilities of the Nation's power 
        grid, including estimation of the cost, time scale for 
        implementation, and identification of the scale and scope of 
        any potential significant health and environmental impacts;
            (2) consider the forces affecting the grid, including 
        technical, economic, regulatory, environmental, and 
        geopolitical factors, and how such forces are likely to 
        affect--
                    (A) the efficiency, control, reliability and 
                robustness of operation;
                    (B) the ability of the grid to recover from 
                disruptions, including natural disasters and terrorist 
                attacks;
                    (C) the ability of the grid to incorporate greater 
                reliance on distributed and intermittent power 
                generation and electricity storage;
                    (D) the ability of the grid to adapt to changing 
                patterns of demand for electricity; and
                    (E) the economic and regulatory factors affecting 
                the evolution of the grid;
            (3) review Federal, State, industry, and academic research 
        and development programs and identify technological options 
        that could improve the future grid;
            (4) review the implications of increased reliance on 
        digital information and control of the power grid for improving 
        reliability, resilience, and congestion and for potentially 
        increasing vulnerability to cyber attack;
            (5) review regulatory, industry, and institutional factors 
        and programs affecting the future of the grid;
            (6) research the costs and benefits, as well as the 
        strengths and weaknesses, of the options identified under 
        paragraph (1) to address the emerging forces described in 
        paragraph (2) that are shaping the grid;
            (7) identify the barriers to realizing the options 
        identified and suggest strategies for overcoming those barriers 
        including suggested actions, priorities, incentives, and 
        possible legislative and executive actions; and
            (8) research the ability of the grid to integrate existing 
        and future infrastructure, including utilities, 
        telecommunications lines, highways, and other critical 
        infrastructure.
    (b) Cooperation and Access to Information and Personnel.--The 
Secretary shall ensure that the National Research Council receives full 
and timely cooperation, including full access to information and 
personnel, from the Department of Homeland Security, the Department of 
Energy, including the management and operating components of the 
Departments, and other Federal departments and agencies, as necessary, 
for the purposes of conducting the study described in subsection (a).
    (c) Report.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 18 months from the date on 
        which the Secretary enters into the agreement with the National 
        Research Council described in subsection (a), the National 
        Research Council shall submit to the Secretary and the 
        Committee on Homeland Security of the House of Representatives 
        and the Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs 
        of the Senate a report containing the findings of the research 
        required by that subsection.
            (2) Form of report.--The report under paragraph (1) shall 
        be submitted in unclassified form, but may include a classified 
        annex.
    (d) Authorization of Appropriations.--There is authorized to be 
appropriated to the Secretary of Homeland Security $2,100,000 to carry 
out this section.
                                 <all>
