
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 1120 Referred in Senate (RFS)]

113th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                H. R. 1120


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                             April 15, 2013

     Received; read twice and referred to the Committee on Health, 
                     Education, Labor, and Pensions

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 AN ACT


 
 To prohibit the National Labor Relations Board from taking any action 
 that requires a quorum of the members of the Board until such time as 
 Board constituting a quorum shall have been confirmed by the Senate, 
  the Supreme Court issues a decision on the constitutionality of the 
appointments to the Board made in January 2012, or the adjournment sine 
            die of the first session of the 113th Congress.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Preventing Greater Uncertainty in 
Labor-Management Relations Act''.

SEC. 2. ACTIVITIES BY THE NATIONAL LABOR RELATIONS BOARD PROHIBITED.

    Effective on the date of enactment of this Act, the National Labor 
Relations Board shall cease all activity that requires a quorum of the 
members of the Board, as set forth in the National Labor Relations Act 
(29 U.S.C. 151 et seq.). The Board shall not appoint any personnel nor 
implement, administer, or enforce any decision, rule, vote, or other 
action decided, undertaken, adopted, issued, or finalized on or after 
January 4, 2012, that requires a quorum of the members of the Board, as 
set forth in such Act.

SEC. 3. TERMINATION.

    The provisions of this Act shall terminate on the date on which--
            (1) all members of the National Labor Relations Board are 
        confirmed with the advice and consent of the Senate, in 
        accordance with clause 2 of section 2 of article II of the 
        Constitution, in a number sufficient to constitute a quorum, as 
        set forth in the National Labor Relations Act (29 U.S.C. 151 et 
        seq.);
            (2) the Supreme Court issues a decision on the 
        constitutionality of the appointments to the Board made in 
        January 2012; or
            (3) the adjournment sine die of the first session of the 
        113th Congress.

SEC. 4. EFFECT OF CERTAIN BOARD ACTIONS.

    In the event that this Act terminates pursuant to paragraph (1) or 
(3) of section 3, no appointment, decision, rule, vote, or other action 
decided, undertaken, adopted, issued, or finalized by the Board on or 
after January 4, 2012, that requires authorization by not less than a 
quorum of the members of the Board, as set forth in the National Labor 
Relations Act, may be implemented, administered, or enforced unless and 
until it is considered and acted upon by a Board constituting a quorum, 
as set forth in the National Labor Relations Act, or the Supreme Court 
issues a decision on the constitutionality of the appointments to the 
Board made in January 2012.

            Passed the House of Representatives April 12, 2013.

            Attest:

                                                 KAREN L. HAAS,

                                                                 Clerk.
