
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 302 Introduced in House (IH)]

113th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                H. R. 302

To amend the Inspector General Act of 1978 to provide for an Inspector 
  General for the Metropolitan Washington Airports Authority, and for 
                            other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                            January 15, 2013

   Mr. Wolf introduced the following bill; which was referred to the 
 Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, and in addition to the 
  Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, for a period to be 
subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration 
  of such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the committee 
                               concerned

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
To amend the Inspector General Act of 1978 to provide for an Inspector 
  General for the Metropolitan Washington Airports Authority, and for 
                            other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Metropolitan Washington Airports 
Authority Inspector General Act of 2013''.

SEC. 2. INSPECTOR GENERAL FOR THE METROPOLITAN WASHINGTON AIRPORTS 
              AUTHORITY.

    (a) In General.--Section 8G of the Inspector General Act of 1978 (5 
U.S.C. App.) is amended--
            (1) in subsection (a)--
                    (A) in paragraph (2), by inserting ``the 
                Metropolitan Washington Airports Authority,'' after 
                ``the Legal Services Corporation,''; and
                    (B) in paragraph (4)--
                            (i) by redesignating subparagraphs (D) 
                        through (H) as subparagraphs (E) through (I), 
                        respectively; and
                            (ii) by inserting after subparagraph (C) 
                        the following new subparagraph:
                    ``(D) with respect to the Metropolitan Washington 
                Airports Authority, such term means the board of 
                directors of the Metropolitan Washington Airports 
                Authority;''; and
            (2) in subsection (c), by inserting ``section 8M and'' 
        before ``subsection (f)''.
    (b) Rule of Construction.--Section 8J of the Inspector General Act 
of 1978 (5 U.S.C. App.) is amended by striking ``8E or 8F'' and 
inserting ``8E, 8F, or 8M''.
    (c) Special Provisions.--The Inspector General Act of 1978 (5 
U.S.C. App.) is amended by inserting after section 8L the following new 
section:

``SEC. 8M. SPECIAL PROVISIONS CONCERNING THE METROPOLITAN WASHINGTON 
              AIRPORTS AUTHORITY.

    ``(a) Appointment and Removal.--Notwithstanding subsections (c) and 
(e) of section 8G, the Inspector General of the Metropolitan Washington 
Airports Authority shall be appointed and removed by the Secretary of 
Transportation. Such Inspector General shall be appointed without 
regard to political affiliation and solely on the basis of integrity 
and demonstrated ability in accounting, auditing, financial analysis, 
law, management analysis, public administration, or investigations.
    ``(b) Executive Session.--The Inspector General for the 
Metropolitan Washington Airports Authority may attend any executive 
session of the board of directors of the Metropolitan Washington 
Airports Authority.
    ``(c) IG Staff.--The Inspector General for the Metropolitan 
Washington Airports Authority may appoint additional staff as the 
Inspector General considers appropriate.
    ``(d) Expenses and Staff.--The Metropolitan Washington Airports 
Authority shall pay the expenses of the Inspector General for such 
Authority, including staff salaries and benefits. A request for funds 
by the Inspector General shall result in requested funds being made 
available not later than 30 days after such request is made. If the 
Metropolitan Washington Airports Authority fails to comply with this 
subsection, the Secretary of Transportation may not approve a grant for 
such Authority under section 47107(b) of title 49, United States Code, 
until such funding is made available for the Inspector General.
    ``(e) Employee Compliance.--Employees of the Metropolitan 
Washington Airports Authority and members of the board of directors of 
such Authority shall cooperate with and comply with requests from the 
Inspector General of the Metropolitan Washington Airports Authority 
necessary in the performance of the functions assigned by this Act, 
including providing testimony and other information.''.
    (d) Deadline for Appointment of the Inspector General for the 
Metropolitan Washington Airports Authority.--Not later than 60 days 
after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of 
Transportation shall appoint an Inspector General for the Metropolitan 
Washington Airports Authority as required by section 8M of the 
Inspector General Act of 1978 (5 U.S.C. App.), as added by subsection 
(c).
    (e) Amount for IG Expenses.--
            (1) In general.--The Metropolitan Washington Airports 
        Authority shall make available not less than $1,200,000 for the 
        Inspector General of the Authority for the one-year period 
        beginning on the date that the Inspector General of the 
        Metropolitan Washington Airports Authority is appointed and 
        such funds shall remain available until expended. Requests for 
        subsequent fiscal years shall be made by the Inspector General 
        and paid by the Metropolitan Washington Airports Authority 
        unless expressly stated otherwise in law.
            (2) Staff and budget requirements.--Not later than 1 year 
        after the Inspector General for the Metropolitan Washington 
        Airports Authority is appointed, the Inspector General shall 
        determine any staffing and budget requirements of the Inspector 
        General.
                                 <all>
