
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 2279 Reported in House (RH)]

                                                 Union Calendar No. 183
113th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                H. R. 2279

                      [Report No. 113-179, Part I]

To amend the Solid Waste Disposal Act relating to review of regulations 
 under such Act and to amend the Comprehensive Environmental Response, 
     Compensation, and Liability Act of 1980 relating to financial 
               responsibility for classes of facilities.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                              June 6, 2013

 Mr. Gardner introduced the following bill; which was referred to the 
 Committee on Energy and Commerce, and in addition to the Committee on 
  Transportation and Infrastructure, for a period to be subsequently 
   determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of such 
 provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned

                             July 30, 2013

  Reported from the Committee on Energy and Commerce with an amendment
 [Strike out all after the enacting clause and insert the part printed 
                               in italic]

                             July 30, 2013

Referral to the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure extended 
          for a period ending not later than November 1, 2013

                            November 1, 2013

    The Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure discharged; 
committed to the Committee of the Whole House on the State of the Union 
                       and ordered to be printed
[For text of introduced bill, see copy of bill as introduced on June 6, 
                                 2013]


_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
To amend the Solid Waste Disposal Act relating to review of regulations 
 under such Act and to amend the Comprehensive Environmental Response, 
     Compensation, and Liability Act of 1980 relating to financial 
               responsibility for classes of facilities.


 


    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Reducing Excessive Deadline 
Obligations Act of 2013''.

SEC. 2. REVIEW OF REGULATIONS UNDER THE SOLID WASTE DISPOSAL ACT.

    Section 2002(b) of the Solid Waste Disposal Act (42 U.S.C. 6912(b)) 
is amended to read as follows:
    ``(b) Review of Regulations.--The Administrator shall review, and 
revise, as the Administrator determines appropriate, regulations 
promulgated under this Act.''.

SEC. 3. FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY FOR CLASSES OF FACILITIES UNDER 
              CERCLA.

    Section 108(b) of the Comprehensive Environmental Response, 
Compensation, and Liability Act of 1980 (42 U.S.C. 9608(b)) is 
amended--
            (1) in paragraph (1)--
                    (A) by striking ``Not later than three years after 
                the date of enactment of the Act, the President shall'' 
                and inserting ``The President shall, as appropriate,''; 
                and
                    (B) by striking ``first'' after ``for which 
                requirements will be''; and
            (2) in paragraph (2)--
                    (A) by striking ``Financial responsibility may be 
                established'' and inserting ``Owners and operators may 
                establish financial responsibility'';
                    (B) by striking ``any one, or any combination, of 
                the following:'' and inserting ``forms of security, 
                including''; and
                    (C) by striking ``or qualification'' and inserting 
                ``and qualification''.

SEC. 4. REPORT TO CONGRESS REGARDING FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 
              REQUIREMENTS.

    Section 108(b) of the Comprehensive Environmental Response, 
Compensation, and Liability Act of 1980 (42 U.S.C. 9608(b)) is further 
amended by adding at the end the following:
    ``(6) The President may not promulgate any financial responsibility 
requirement under this subsection without first submitting to Congress 
a report--
            ``(A) describing each facility or class of facilities to be 
        covered by such requirement;
            ``(B) describing the development of such requirement, why 
        the facility or class of facilities proposed to be covered by 
        such requirement present the highest level of risk of injury, 
        and why the facility or class of facilities is not already 
        covered by adequate financial responsibility requirements;
            ``(C) describing the financial responsibility requirements 
        promulgated by States or other Federal agencies for the 
        facility or class of facilities to be covered by the financial 
        responsibility requirement proposed under this subsection and 
        explaining why the requirement proposed under this subsection 
        is necessary;
            ``(D) describing the exposure to the Fund for response 
        costs resulting from the facility or class of facilities 
        proposed to be covered; and
            ``(E) describing the capacity of the financial and credit 
        markets to provide instruments of financial responsibility 
        necessary to meet such requirement.
The President shall update any report submitted under this paragraph to 
reflect any revision of the facilities or classes of facilities to be 
covered by a financial responsibility requirement that is the subject 
of such report.''.

SEC. 5. PREEMPTION OF FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REQUIREMENTS.

    Section 114(d) of the Comprehensive Environmental Response, 
Compensation, and Liability Act of 1980 (42 U.S.C. 9614(d)) is amended 
to read as follows:
    ``(d) No owner or operator of a vessel or facility who establishes 
and maintains evidence of financial responsibility associated with the 
production, transportation, treatment, storage, or disposal of 
hazardous substances pursuant to financial responsibility requirements 
under any State law or regulation, or any other Federal law or 
regulation, shall be required to establish or maintain evidence of 
financial responsibility under this title, unless the President 
determines, after notice and opportunity for public comment, that in 
the event of a release of a hazardous substance that is not a federally 
permitted release or authorized by a State permit, such other Federal 
or State financial responsibility requirements are insufficient to 
cover likely response costs under section 104. If the President 
determines that such other Federal or State financial responsibility 
requirements are insufficient to cover likely response costs under 
section 104 in the event of such a release, the President shall accept 
evidence of compliance with such other Federal or State financial 
responsibility requirements in lieu of compliance with any portion of 
the financial responsibility requirements promulgated under this title 
to which they correspond.''.

SEC. 6. EXPLOSIVE RISKS PLANNING NOTIFICATION.

    Not later than 180 days after the date of enactment of this Act, 
the owner or operator of each facility at which substances listed in 
appendix A to part 27 of title 6, Code of Federal Regulations, as 
flammables or explosives are present above the screening threshold 
listed therein shall notify the State emergency response commission for 
the State in which such facility is located that such substances are 
present at such facility and of the amount of such substances that are 
present at such facility.
                                                 Union Calendar No. 183

113th CONGRESS

  1st Session

                               H. R. 2279

                      [Report No. 113-179, Part I]

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL

To amend the Solid Waste Disposal Act relating to review of regulations 
 under such Act and to amend the Comprehensive Environmental Response, 
     Compensation, and Liability Act of 1980 relating to financial 
               responsibility for classes of facilities.

_______________________________________________________________________

                            November 1, 2013

    The Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure discharged; 
committed to the Committee of the Whole House on the State of the Union 
                       and ordered to be printed
