
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 1756 Introduced in House (IH)]

113th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                H. R. 1756

  To authorize the Secretary of Defense to transport to any country, 
   without charge, supplies that have been furnished by a nonprofit 
 organization and that are intended for distribution to members of the 
                 Armed Forces, and for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                             April 25, 2013

  Mr. Posey introduced the following bill; which was referred to the 
                      Committee on Armed Services

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
  To authorize the Secretary of Defense to transport to any country, 
   without charge, supplies that have been furnished by a nonprofit 
 organization and that are intended for distribution to members of the 
                 Armed Forces, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Deployed Troops Support Act of 
2013''.

SEC. 2. TRANSPORTATION OF SUPPLIES TO MEMBERS OF THE ARMED FORCES FROM 
              NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS.

    (a) In General.--Chapter 20 of title 10, United States Code, is 
amended by inserting after section 402 the following new section:
``Sec. 403. Transportation of supplies from nonprofit organizations
    ``(a) Authorization of Transportation.--Notwithstanding any other 
provision of law, and subject to subsection (b), the Secretary of 
Defense may transport to any country, without charge, supplies that 
have been furnished by a nonprofit organization and that are intended 
for distribution to members of the armed forces. Such supplies may be 
transported only on a space available basis.
    ``(b) Limitations.--(1) The Secretary may not transport supplies 
under subsection (a) unless the Secretary determines that--
            ``(A) the transportation of the supplies is consistent with 
        the policies of the United States;
            ``(B) the supplies are suitable for distribution to members 
        of the armed forces and are in usable condition;
            ``(C) there is a legitimate need for the supplies by the 
        members of the armed forces for whom they are intended; and
            ``(D) adequate arrangements have been made for the 
        distribution and use of the supplies.
    ``(2) Procedures.--The Secretary shall establish procedures for 
making the determinations required under paragraph (1). Such procedures 
shall include inspection of supplies before acceptance for transport.
    ``(3) Preparation.--It shall be the responsibility of the nonprofit 
organization requesting the transport of supplies under this section to 
ensure that the supplies are suitable for transport.
    ``(c) Distribution.--Supplies transported under this section may be 
distributed by the United States Government or a nonprofit 
organization.
    ``(d) Definition of Nonprofit Organization.--In this section, the 
term `nonprofit organization' means an organization described in 
section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 and exempt from 
tax under section 501(a) of such Code.''.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections at the beginning of 
chapter 20 of such title is amended by inserting after the item 
relating to section 402 the following new item:

``403. Transportation of supplies from nonprofit organizations.''.
                                 <all>
