
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 462 Introduced in House (IH)]

113th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                H. R. 462

To require the conveyance of certain public land within the boundaries 
 of Camp Williams, Utah, to support the training and readiness of the 
                          Utah National Guard.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                            February 4, 2013

 Mr. Bishop of Utah (for himself, Mr. Chaffetz, Mr. Matheson, and Mr. 
   Stewart) introduced the following bill; which was referred to the 
                     Committee on Natural Resources

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
To require the conveyance of certain public land within the boundaries 
 of Camp Williams, Utah, to support the training and readiness of the 
                          Utah National Guard.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Utah National Guard Readiness Act''.

SEC. 2. LAND CONVEYANCE, CAMP WILLIAMS, UTAH.

    (a) Conveyance Required.--Not later than 120 days after the date of 
the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of the Interior, acting 
through the Bureau of Land Management, shall convey, without 
consideration, to the State of Utah all right, title, and interest of 
the United States in and to certain lands comprising approximately 420 
acres, as generally depicted on a map entitled ``Proposed Camp Williams 
Land Transfer'' and dated June 14, 2011, which are located within the 
boundaries of the public lands currently withdrawn for military use by 
the Utah National Guard and known as Camp Williams, Utah, for the 
purpose of permitting the Utah National Guard to use the conveyed land 
as provided in subsection (c).
    (b) Supersedence of Executive Order.--Executive Order No. 1922 of 
April 24, 1914, as amended by section 907 of the Camp W.G. Williams 
Land Exchange Act of 1989 (title IX of Public Law 101-628; 104 Stat. 
4501), is hereby superseded, only insofar as it affects the lands 
identified for conveyance to the State of Utah under subsection (a).
    (c) Reversionary Interest.--The lands conveyed to the State of Utah 
under subsection (a) shall revert to the United States if the Secretary 
of Defense determines that the land, or any portion thereof, is sold or 
attempted to be sold, or that the land, or any portion thereof, is used 
for non-National Guard or non-national defense purposes.
    (d) Hazardous Materials.--With respect to any portion of the land 
conveyed under subsection (a) that the Secretary of Defense determines 
is subject to reversion under subsection (c), if the Secretary of 
Defense also determines that the portion of the conveyed land contains 
hazardous materials, the State of Utah shall pay the United States an 
amount equal to the fair market value of that portion of the land, and 
the reversionary interest shall not apply to that portion of the land.
                                 <all>
