
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 2310 Introduced in House (IH)]

113th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                H. R. 2310

   To amend title 38, United States Code, to direct the Secretary of 
Veterans Affairs to make available for purchase Department of Veterans 
    Affairs memorial headstones and markers for members of reserve 
               components who performed certain training.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                             June 11, 2013

  Mr. Hanna introduced the following bill; which was referred to the 
                     Committee on Veterans' Affairs

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
   To amend title 38, United States Code, to direct the Secretary of 
Veterans Affairs to make available for purchase Department of Veterans 
    Affairs memorial headstones and markers for members of reserve 
               components who performed certain training.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Guard Units And Reservists Deserve 
Remembrance Act''.

SEC. 2. AVAILABILITY FOR PURCHASE OF DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS AFFAIRS 
              MEMORIAL HEADSTONES AND MARKERS FOR MEMBERS OF RESERVE 
              COMPONENTS WHO PERFORMED CERTAIN TRAINING.

    Section 2306 of title 38, United States Code, is amended by adding 
at the end the following new subsection:
    ``(i)(1) The Secretary shall make available for purchase a memorial 
headstone or marker for the marked or unmarked grave of an individual 
described in paragraph (2) or for the purpose of commemorating such an 
individual whose remains are unavailable.
    ``(2) An individual described in this paragraph is an individual 
who--
            ``(A) as a member of a United States National Guard or 
        Reserve component performed inactive duty training or active 
        duty for training for at least 6 years but did not serve on 
        active duty; and
            ``(B) is not otherwise ineligible for a memorial headstone 
        or marker on account of the nature of the individual's 
        separation from the Armed Forces or other cause.
    ``(3) A headstone or marker for the grave of an individual may be 
purchased under this subsection by--
            ``(A) the individual;
            ``(B) the surviving spouse, child, sibling, or parent of 
        the individual; or
            ``(C) an individual other than the next of kin, as 
        determined by the Secretary of Veterans Affairs.
    ``(4) In establishing the prices of the headstones and markers made 
available for purchase under this section, the Secretary shall ensure 
the prices are sufficient to cover the costs associated with the 
production and delivery of such headstones and markers.
    ``(5) No person may receive any benefit under the laws administered 
by the Secretary of Veterans Affairs solely by reason of this 
subsection.
    ``(6) This subsection does not authorize any new burial benefit for 
any person or create any new authority for any individual to be buried 
in a national cemetery.
    ``(7) The Secretary shall coordinate with the Secretary of Defense 
in establishing procedures to determine whether an individual is an 
individual described in paragraph (2).''.
                                 <all>
