
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[S. 586 Introduced in Senate (IS)]

113th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                 S. 586

   For the relief of Alfredo Plascencia Lopez and Maria Del Refugio 
                              Plascencia.


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                             March 18, 2013

Mrs. Feinstein introduced the following bill; which was read twice and 
               referred to the Committee on the Judiciary

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
   For the relief of Alfredo Plascencia Lopez and Maria Del Refugio 
                              Plascencia.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. PERMANENT RESIDENT STATUS FOR ALFREDO PLASCENCIA LOPEZ AND 
              MARIA DEL REFUGIO PLASCENCIA.

    (a) In General.--Notwithstanding subsections (a) and (b) of section 
201 of the Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1151), Alfredo 
Plascencia Lopez and Maria Del Refugio Plascencia shall each be 
eligible for the issuance of an immigrant visa or for adjustment of 
status to that of an alien lawfully admitted for permanent residence 
upon filing an application for issuance of an immigrant visa under 
section 204 of that Act (8 U.S.C. 1154) or for adjustment of status to 
lawful permanent resident.
    (b) Adjustment of Status.--If Alfredo Plascencia Lopez or Maria Del 
Refugio Plascencia enter the United States before the filing deadline 
specified in subsection (c), Alfredo Plascencia Lopez or Maria Del 
Refugio Plascencia, as appropriate, shall be considered to have entered 
and remained lawfully and shall be eligible for adjustment of status 
under section 245 of the Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 
1255) as of the date of the enactment of this Act.
    (c) Application and Payment of Fees.--Subsections (a) and (b) shall 
apply only if the application for issuance of immigrant visas or the 
application for adjustment of status are filed with appropriate fees 
within 2 years after the date of the enactment of this Act.
    (d) Reduction of Immigrant Visa Numbers.--Upon the granting of 
immigrant visas or permanent residence to Alfredo Plascencia Lopez and 
Maria Del Refugio Plascencia, the Secretary of State shall instruct the 
proper officer to reduce by 2, during the current or subsequent fiscal 
year, the total number of immigrant visas that are made available to 
natives of the country of birth of Alfredo Plascencia Lopez and Maria 
Del Refugio Plascencia under section 203(a) of the Immigration and 
Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1153(a)) or, if applicable, the total number 
of immigrant visas that are made available to natives of the country of 
birth of Alfredo Plascencia Lopez and Maria Del Refugio Plascencia 
under section 202(e) of that Act (8 U.S.C. 1152(e)).
    (e) PAYGO.--The budgetary effects of this Act, for the purpose of 
complying with the Statutory Pay-As-You-Go Act of 2010, shall be 
determined by reference to the latest statement titled ``Budgetary 
Effects of PAYGO Legislation'' for this Act, submitted for printing in 
the Congressional Record by the Chairman of the Senate Budget 
Committee, provided that such statement has been submitted prior to the 
vote on passage.
                                 <all>
