
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 2544 Introduced in House (IH)]

113th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                H. R. 2544

To limit United States economic assistance and to oppose World Bank and 
   International Monetary Fund assistance to the Government of Egypt.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                             June 27, 2013

 Mr. Schweikert (for himself, Mr. Long, Mr. Sensenbrenner, Mr. Rodney 
  Davis of Illinois, and Mr. DeSantis) introduced the following bill; 
   which was referred to the Committee on Financial Services, and in 
   addition to the Committee on Foreign Affairs, for a period to be 
subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration 
  of such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the committee 
                               concerned

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
To limit United States economic assistance and to oppose World Bank and 
   International Monetary Fund assistance to the Government of Egypt.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Conditioning Economic Assistance and 
Support to Egypt Act'' or ``CEASE Act''.

SEC. 2. LIMITATION ON UNITED STATES ECONOMIC ASSISTANCE AND OPPOSITION 
              TO WORLD BANK AND INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND ASSISTANCE 
              TO THE GOVERNMENT OF EGYPT.

    (a) United States Economic Assistance.--No loan, credit guarantee, 
insurance, financing, or other assistance under part I of the Foreign 
Assistance Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 2151 et seq.; relating to economic 
assistance) or under the Export-Import Bank Act of 1945 (12 U.S.C. 635 
et seq.) may be provided to the Government of Egypt unless the 
President certifies to Congress that the Government of Egypt has met 
the conditions described in subsection (c).
    (b) World Bank Assistance.--The Secretary of the Treasury shall 
instruct the United States Executive Director at the International Bank 
for Reconstruction and Development to use the voice and vote of the 
United States to oppose any assistance to the Government of Egypt 
unless the President certifies to Congress that the Government of Egypt 
has met the conditions described in subsection (c).
    (c) International Monetary Fund Assistance.--The Secretary of the 
Treasury shall instruct the United States Executive Director at the 
International Monetary Fund to use the voice and vote of the United 
States to oppose any loan agreement for the Government of Egypt unless 
the President certifies to Congress that the Government of Egypt has 
met the conditions described in subsection (c).
    (d) Conditions Described.--The conditions referred to in 
subsections (a), (b), and (c) are the following:
            (1) The Government of Egypt has adopted and implemented 
        legal reforms to protect the political, economic, and religious 
        freedoms and human rights of the citizens and residents of 
        Egypt.
            (2) The Government of Egypt is not acting to restrict the 
        political, economic, or religious freedoms and human rights of 
        the citizens and residents of Egypt.
            (3) The Government of Egypt is continuing to demonstrate a 
        commitment to free and fair elections and is not taking any 
        steps to interfere with or undermine the credibility of such 
        elections.
            (4) The Government of Egypt is abiding by and implementing 
        all measures of the agreements set out in the 1979 Egypt-Israel 
        Peace Treaty, including establishing full diplomatic relations 
        through the exchange of ambassadors.
            (5) The Government of Egypt is taking all necessary action 
        to eliminate smuggling networks and to detect and destroy 
        tunnels between Egypt and the Gaza Strip.
            (6) The Government of Egypt is taking all necessary action 
        to combat terrorism in the Sinai.
            (7) The Government of Egypt in consultation with the United 
        States Department of Defense has produced an analysis of 
        Egypt's current security needs, and the analysis has been 
        shared with Congress.
            (8) The Government of Egypt has lifted restrictions in law 
        and practice on the work and funding of Egyptian and 
        international nongovernmental organizations, comprising those 
        in the human rights and democracy fields.
                                 <all>
