
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[S.J. Res. 25 Introduced in Senate (IS)]

113th CONGRESS
  1st Session
S. J. RES. 25

    Proposing an amendment to the Constitution of the United States 
relative to applying laws equally to the citizens of the United States 
                      and the Federal Government.


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                            October 11, 2013

  Mr. Paul introduced the following joint resolution; which was read 
          twice and referred to the Committee on the Judiciary

_______________________________________________________________________

                            JOINT RESOLUTION


 
    Proposing an amendment to the Constitution of the United States 
relative to applying laws equally to the citizens of the United States 
                      and the Federal Government.

    Resolved by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United 
States of America in Congress assembled   (two-thirds of each House 
concurring therein), That the following article is proposed as an 
amendment to the Constitution of the United States, which shall be 
valid to all intents and purposes as part of the Constitution when 
ratified by the legislatures of three-fourths of the several States:

                              ``Article--

    ``Section 1. Congress shall make no law applicable to a citizen of 
the United States that is not equally applicable to Congress.
    ``Section 2. Congress shall make no law applicable to a citizen of 
the United States that is not equally applicable to the executive 
branch of Government, including the President, Vice President, 
ambassadors, other public ministers and consuls, and all other officers 
of the United States, including those provided for under this 
Constitution and by law, and inferior officers to the President 
established by law.
    ``Section 3. Congress shall make no law applicable to a citizen of 
the United States that is not equally applicable to judges of the 
Supreme Court of the United States, including the Chief Justice, and 
judges of such inferior courts as Congress may from time to time ordain 
and establish.
    ``Section 4. Nothing in this article shall preempt any specific 
provision of this Constitution.''.
                                 <all>
