
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[S. 447 Reported in Senate (RS)]

                                                       Calendar No. 117
113th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                 S. 447

                          [Report No. 113-63]

To provide for the conveyance of certain cemeteries that are located on 
   National Forest System land in Black Hills National Forest, South 
                                Dakota.


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                             March 5, 2013

Mr. Thune (for himself and Mr. Johnson of South Dakota) introduced the 
 following bill; which was read twice and referred to the Committee on 
                      Energy and Natural Resources

                             June 27, 2013

                Reported by Mr. Wyden, without amendment

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
To provide for the conveyance of certain cemeteries that are located on 
   National Forest System land in Black Hills National Forest, South 
                                Dakota.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Black Hills Cemetery Act''.

SEC. 2. LAND CONVEYANCES, CERTAIN CEMETERIES LOCATED IN BLACK HILLS 
              NATIONAL FOREST, SOUTH DAKOTA.

    (a) Cemetery Conveyances Required.--The Secretary of Agriculture 
shall convey, without consideration, to the local communities in South 
Dakota that are currently managing and maintaining certain community 
cemeteries (as specified in subsection (b)) all right, title, and 
interest of the United States in and to--
            (1) the parcels of National Forest System land containing 
        such cemeteries; and
            (2) up to an additional two acres adjoining each cemetery 
        in order to ensure the conveyances include unmarked gravesites 
        and allow for expansion of the cemeteries.
    (b) Property and Recipients.--The properties to be conveyed under 
subsection (a), and the recipients of each property, are as follows:
            (1) The Silver City Cemetery to the Silver City Volunteer 
        Fire Department.
            (2) The Hayward Cemetery to the Hayward Volunteer Fire 
        Department.
            (3) The encumbered land adjacent to the Englewood Cemetery 
        (encompassing the cemetery entrance portal, access road, 
        fences, 2,500 gallon reservoir and building housing such 
        reservoir, and piping to provide sprinkling system to the 
        cemetery) to the City of Lead.
            (4) The land adjacent to the Mountain Meadow Cemetery to 
        the Mountain Meadow Cemetery Association.
            (5) The Roubaix Cemetery to the Roubaix Cemetery 
        Association.
            (6) The Nemo Cemetery to the Nemo Cemetery Association.
            (7) The Galena Cemetery to the Galena Historical Society.
            (8) The Rockerville Cemetery to the Rockerville Community 
        Club.
            (9) The Cold Springs Cemetery (including adjacent school 
        yard and log building) to the Cold Springs Historical Society.
    (c) Condition of Conveyance.--Each conveyance under subsection (a) 
shall be subject to the condition that the recipient accept the 
conveyed real property in its condition at the time of the conveyance.
    (d) Use of Land Conveyed.--The lands conveyed under subsection (a) 
shall continue to be used in the same manner and for the same purposes 
as they were immediately prior to their conveyance under this Act.
    (e) Description of Property.--The exact acreage and legal 
description of each parcel of real property to be conveyed under 
subsection (a) shall be determined by surveys satisfactory to the 
Secretary. The cost of the survey for a particular parcel shall be 
borne by the recipient of such parcel.
    (f) Additional Terms and Conditions.--The Secretary may require 
such additional terms and conditions in connection with the conveyances 
under subsection (a) as the Secretary considers appropriate to protect 
the interests of the United States.
                                                       Calendar No. 117

113th CONGRESS

  1st Session

                                 S. 447

                          [Report No. 113-63]

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL

To provide for the conveyance of certain cemeteries that are located on 
   National Forest System land in Black Hills National Forest, South 
                                Dakota.

_______________________________________________________________________

                             June 27, 2013

                       Reported without amendment
