
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 3427 Introduced in House (IH)]

113th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                H. R. 3427

  To amend the Crime Control Act of 1990 to require certification of 
 State and law enforcement agency reports related to missing children, 
    to require that certain information be provided to individuals 
           reporting a missing child, and for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                            October 30, 2013

Mrs. Carolyn B. Maloney of New York (for herself, Mr. Poe of Texas, Ms. 
Moore, and Ms. Bass) introduced the following bill; which was referred 
                   to the Committee on the Judiciary

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
  To amend the Crime Control Act of 1990 to require certification of 
 State and law enforcement agency reports related to missing children, 
    to require that certain information be provided to individuals 
           reporting a missing child, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Runaway Reporting Improvement Act of 
2013''.

SEC. 2. MISSING CHILDREN REPORTING REQUIREMENTS.

    Section 3701 of title XXXVII of the Crime Control Act of 1990 (42 
U.S.C. 5779) is amended--
            (1) by amending subsection (b) to read as follows:
    ``(b) Guidelines.--The Attorney General--
            ``(1) may establish guidelines for the collection of such 
        reports including procedures for carrying out the purposes of 
        this section and section 3702; and
            ``(2) shall establish guidelines for the format and 
        collection of the certifications required under subsection 
        (d).'';
            (2) by amending subsection (c) to read as follows:
    ``(c) Annual Summary.--The Attorney General shall publish in the 
Federal Register and make available on the Web site of the Department 
of Justice--
            ``(1) an annual statistical summary of the reports received 
        under this section and section 3702; and
            ``(2) not later than 18 months after the date of enactment 
        of the Runaway Reporting Improvement Act of 2013, a summary of 
        the certifications required under subsection (d).''; and
            (3) by adding at the end the following new subsection:
    ``(d) Certification of Compliance.--Not later than 18 months after 
the date of enactment of the Runaway Reporting Improvement Act of 2013, 
each Federal, State, and local law enforcement agency reporting under 
the provisions of this section and section 3702 shall file a 
certification of the agency's compliance with such sections, which 
shall be signed by an authorized representative of the agency and 
submitted to the Attorney General.''.

SEC. 3. STATE REQUIREMENTS FOR REPORTING.

    Section 3702 of title XXXVII of the Crime Control Act of 1990 (42 
U.S.C. 5780) is amended--
            (1) by striking ``Each State reporting'' and inserting 
        ``(a) In General.--Each State reporting'';
            (2) by striking ``and'' after the semicolon at the end of 
        paragraph (2);
            (3) by striking ``and'' after the semicolon at the end of 
        paragraph (3);
            (4) by striking the period at the end of paragraph (4) and 
        inserting ``; and'';
            (5) by adding after paragraph (4) the following new 
        paragraph:
            ``(5) not later than one year after the date of enactment 
        of the Runaway Reporting Improvement Act of 2013, develop, and 
        require State and local law enforcement officers in such State 
        to disseminate, a written information sheet to be provided to 
        each individual who reports a missing child to such an officer 
        after such date, which shall--
                    ``(A) be submitted to the Department of Justice for 
                approval, and approved by the Department, before such 
                date;
                    ``(B) include, at a minimum, the 24-hour, toll-free 
                phone numbers for the National Center for Missing and 
                Exploited Children and the National Runaway Safeline; 
                and
                    ``(C) provide a description of the services that 
                the National Center for Missing and Exploited Children 
                and the National Runaway Safeline provide to the 
                parents and guardians of missing children.''; and
            (6) by adding at the end the following new subsections:
    ``(b) Department of Justice Reporting Requirement.--The Department 
of Justice shall meet the requirements of paragraph (5) of subsection 
(a), except that the Department shall not be required to meet the 
requirements of subparagraph (A) of such paragraph.
    ``(c) Guidelines.--The Attorney General shall establish guidelines 
for the development and dissemination of information sheets required 
under subsections (a)(5) and (b).''.
                                 <all>
