
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H. Res. 380 Engrossed in House (EH)]

H. Res. 380

                In the House of Representatives, U. S.,

                                                      October 11, 2013.
    Resolved, That it shall be in order without intervention of any point of 
order for the chair of the Committee on Agriculture or his designee to move that 
the House insist on its amendment to the Senate amendment to H.R. 2642 and agree 
to a conference with the Senate thereon.
    Sec. 2.  Upon adoption of this resolution it shall be in order without 
intervention of any point of order to consider in the House the resolution (H. 
Res. 378) expressing the sense of the House of Representatives regarding certain 
provisions of the Senate amendment to H.R. 2642 relating to the Secretary of 
Agriculture's administration of tariff-rate quotas for raw and refined sugar. 
The resolution shall be considered as read. The previous question shall be 
considered as ordered on the resolution to its adoption without intervening 
motion or demand for division of the question except one hour of debate equally 
divided and controlled by Representative Pitts of Pennsylvania or his designee 
and an opponent.
    Sec. 3.  Upon adoption of this resolution it shall be in order without 
intervention of any point of order to consider in the House the resolution (H. 
Res. 379) expressing the sense of the House of Representatives regarding certain 
provisions of the Senate amendment to H.R. 2642 relating to crop insurance. The 
resolution shall be considered as read. The previous question shall be 
considered as ordered on the resolution to its adoption without intervening 
motion or demand for division of the question except one hour of debate equally 
divided and controlled by Representative Ryan of Wisconsin or his designee and 
an opponent.
            Attest:

                                                                          Clerk.
