
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[S. 2539 Introduced in Senate (IS)]

113th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                S. 2539

To amend the Public Health Service Act to reauthorize certain programs 
       relating to traumatic brain injury and to trauma research.


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                             June 26, 2014

 Mr. Hatch (for himself and Mr. Casey) introduced the following bill; 
     which was read twice and referred to the Committee on Health, 
                     Education, Labor, and Pensions

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
To amend the Public Health Service Act to reauthorize certain programs 
       relating to traumatic brain injury and to trauma research.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Traumatic Brain Injury 
Reauthorization Act of 2014''.

SEC. 2. CDC PROGRAMS FOR PREVENTION AND SURVEILLANCE OF TRAUMATIC BRAIN 
              INJURY.

    (a) In General.--Section 394A of the Public Health Service Act (42 
U.S.C. 280b-3) is amended--
            (1) by striking the section heading and all that follows 
        through ``For the purpose'' and inserting the following:

``SEC. 394A. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.

    ``(a) In General.--For the purpose''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following:
    ``(b) Traumatic Brain Injury.--To carry out sections 393B and 393C, 
there are authorized to be appropriated $6,564,000 for each of fiscal 
years 2015 through 2019.''.
    (b) Technical Correction.--Section 393B(b)(3) of the Public Health 
Service Act (42 U.S.C. 280b-1c(b)(3)) is amended ``2010, commonly 
referred to as Healthy People 2010'' and inserting ``2020, commonly 
referred to as Healthy People 2020''.

SEC. 3. STATE GRANTS FOR PROJECTS REGARDING TRAUMATIC BRAIN INJURY.

    Section 1252(j) of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 300d-
52(j)) is amended, by striking ``such sums as may be necessary for each 
of the fiscal years 2001 through 2005, and such sums as may be 
necessary for each of the fiscal years 2009 through 2012'' and 
inserting ``$5,500,000 for each of the fiscal years 2015 through 
2019''.

SEC. 4. STATE GRANTS FOR PROTECTION AND ADVOCACY SERVICES.

    Section 1253 of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 300d-53) 
is amended--
            (1) in subsection (l), by striking ``$5,000,000 for fiscal 
        year 2001, and such sums as may be necessary for each the 
        fiscal years 2009 through 2012'' and inserting ``$3,100,000 for 
        each of the fiscal years 2015 through 2019'';
            (2) in subsection (k), by striking ``subtitle C'' and 
        inserting ``subtitle C of title I''; and
            (3) in subsection (m), by striking ``subtitle C'' each 
        place that such appears in paragraphs (1) and (2), and 
        inserting ``subtitle C of title I''.

SEC. 5. TRAUMATIC BRAIN INJURY COORDINATION PLAN.

    (a) Development of Plan.--Not later than 1 year after the date of 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Health and Human Services shall 
develop a plan for improved coordination of Federal activities with 
respect to traumatic brain injury. Such plan shall--
            (1) review existing interagency coordination efforts with 
        respect to Federal activities related to traumatic brain 
        injury, including services for individuals with traumatic brain 
        injury;
            (2) identify areas for improved coordination between 
        relevant Federal agencies and programs, including agencies and 
        programs with a focus on serving individuals with disabilities; 
        and
            (3) incorporate, as appropriate, stakeholder feedback, 
        including feedback from individuals with traumatic brain injury 
        and their caregivers.
    (b) Submission to Congress.--The Secretary of Health and Human 
Services shall submit the plan developed under subsection (a) to the 
Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions of the Senate and 
the Committee on Energy and Commerce of the House of Representatives.

SEC. 6. STUDY OF BRAIN INJURY MANAGEMENT IN CHILDREN.

    The Director of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, in 
consultation with the Director of the National Institutes of Health, 
shall conduct a review of the scientific evidence related to brain 
injury management in children, such as the restriction or prohibition 
of children from attending school or participating in athletic 
activities following a head injury, and identify ongoing and potential 
further opportunities for research. Not later than 2 years after the 
date of enactment of this Act, the Director of the Centers for Disease 
Control and Prevention shall submit to the Committee on Health, 
Education, Labor, and Pensions of the Senate and the Committee on 
Energy and Commerce of the House of Representatives a report concerning 
the results of such review.
                                 <all>
