
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[S. 965 Introduced in Senate (IS)]

113th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                 S. 965

  To eliminate oil exports from Iran by expanding domestic production.


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                              May 15, 2013

  Mr. Inhofe (for himself, Mr. McConnell, Mr. Cornyn, Mr. Wicker, Mr. 
Risch, Mr. Boozman, Mr. Burr, Mr. Hoeven, Mr. Coats, Mr. Hatch, and Mr. 
 Lee) introduced the following bill; which was read twice and referred 
            to the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
  To eliminate oil exports from Iran by expanding domestic production.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Iran Sanctions Implementation Act of 
2013''.

SEC. 2. FINDINGS.

    Congress finds that--
            (1) despite recently enacted sanctions, Iran continues to 
        export 1,250,000 barrels of oil per day;
            (2) 70 percent of the revenue of the Government of Iran 
        comes from oil exports;
            (3) exports of oil from Iran enable the Government of Iran 
        to finance its nuclear weapons program and support rogue actors 
        such as the Assad regime of Syria;
            (4) the international community has reduced its reliance on 
        oil from Iran, but has balked at a full embargo out of fear 
        that the supply of oil on the world market would be 
        insufficient to meet demand without massive price increases and 
        disruptions to the world economy;
            (5) by expanding oil production in the United States by 
        1,250,000 barrels per day, the United States will displace all 
        oil exports from Iran on the world market; and
            (6) displacing oil exports from Iran will enable the 
        imposition of a full embargo against oil from Iran, further 
        isolating the country and reducing its ability to threaten 
        global stability.

SEC. 3. IRANIAN OIL REPLACEMENT ZONES.

    (a) In General.--The President shall designate any area of Federal 
land that the President determines appropriate as an ``Iranian Oil 
Replacement Zone'' (referred to in this Act as a ``Zone'').
    (b) Transportation.--Each Zone shall include any area of Federal 
land necessary for the transportation, including by truck, train, or 
pipeline, of the oil produced in that Zone to market.
    (c) Production.--The President shall make designations under 
subsection (a) until the date on which the Department of the Interior 
determines that the total daily production of oil from the Zones will 
reach 1,250,000 barrels of oil per day.
    (d) Designation.--The designation of Zones under this section shall 
terminate on the date that is 30 days after the date on which the 
President makes the certification described in section 401(a) of the 
Comprehensive Iran Sanctions, Accountability, and Divestment Act of 
2010 (22 U.S.C. 8551(a)).

SEC. 4. EXPEDITED PERMITTING.

    (a) In General.--Each Zone shall be subject to the rules and 
regulations of the State in which the Zone is located.
    (b) Zones Located in More Than 1 State.--If the Zone spans more 
than 1 State, each State shall have authority over the portion of the 
Zone located in that State.

SEC. 5. JUDICIAL REVIEW.

    (a) Judicial Review.--The designation of Federal land under this 
Act shall not be subject to judicial review.
    (b) Applicability of NEPA.--The designation of Federal land under 
this Act shall not--
            (1) constitute a major Federal action for purposes of the 
        National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 4321 et 
        seq.); or
            (2) be subject to review under that Act.
                                 <all>
