
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[S. 1158 Introduced in Senate (IS)]

113th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                S. 1158

 To require the Secretary of the Treasury to mint coins commemorating 
    the 100th anniversary of the establishment of the National Park 
                    Service, and for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                             June 13, 2013

 Mr. Warner (for himself and Mr. Enzi) introduced the following bill; 
which was read twice and referred to the Committee on Banking, Housing, 
                           and Urban Affairs

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
 To require the Secretary of the Treasury to mint coins commemorating 
    the 100th anniversary of the establishment of the National Park 
                    Service, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``National Park Service 100th 
Anniversary Commemorative Coin Act''.

SEC. 2. FINDINGS.

    Congress finds that--
            (1) in 1916, Congress established the National Park Service 
        as a bureau within the Department of the Interior to administer 
        the great national parks and monuments in the United States as 
        a unified National Park System;
            (2) from 1916 to the present, the National Park System has 
        grown from 37 park units with 6,000,000 acres of land in the 
        western United States to more than 395 units with 84,000,000 
        acres of land in nearly every State and territory;
            (3) the responsibilities of the National Park Service have 
        expanded to include--
                    (A) managing national historic trails and national 
                scenic trails;
                    (B) administering wild and scenic rivers;
                    (C) recognizing the most significant historic 
                resources in the United States through the National 
                Register of Historic Places and the National Historic 
                Landmark program;
                    (D) providing historic preservation grants; and
                    (E) assisting communities in meeting their 
                preservation, conservation, and recreation needs;
            (4) the National Park Service Organic Act of 1916 (Public 
        Law 64-408, 39 Stat. 535), which established the National Park 
        Service, remains the preeminent law guiding the management of 
        parks and articulating the core mission of the National Park 
        Service, ``to conserve the scenery and the natural and historic 
        objects and the wild life therein and to provide for the 
        enjoyment of the same in such manner and by such means as will 
        leave them unimpaired for the enjoyment of future 
        generations'';
            (5) the 100th anniversary of the National Park Service in 
        2016 will be an occasion to celebrate a century of American 
        vision and achievement in identifying and preserving the 
        special places in the United States for the benefit of all, and 
        the culmination of 100 years of accomplishments by the 
        employees, partners, and volunteers of the National Park 
        Service;
            (6) 2016 also will mark the beginning of the 2d century of 
        service of the dedicated employees, partners, and volunteers of 
        the National Park Service to the people of the United States as 
        environmental leaders and vigilant stewards of the treasured 
        places and stories of the United States;
            (7) coins commemorating the 100th anniversary of the 
        National Park Service will bring national and international 
        attention to the National Park System and to the legacy 
        Congress left in 1916 when it established a Federal agency to 
        ensure the protection of the most treasured natural and 
        cultural resources in the United States for all time; and
            (8) the proceeds from a surcharge on the sale of 
        commemorative coins will assist the financing of the needs of 
        the parks and programs of the National Park Service, helping to 
        ensure that the great natural and cultural resources of the 
        United States will endure for generations to come.

SEC. 3. COIN SPECIFICATIONS.

    (a) Denominations.--
            (1) $5 gold coins.--The Secretary of the Treasury (referred 
        to in this Act as the ``Secretary'') shall mint and issue not 
        more than 100,000 $5 coins, which shall--
                    (A) weigh 8.359 grams;
                    (B) have a diameter of 0.850 inches; and
                    (C) contain 90 percent gold and 10 percent alloy.
            (2) $1 silver coins.--The Secretary shall mint and issue 
        not more than 500,000 $1 coins, which shall--
                    (A) weigh 26.73 grams;
                    (B) have a diameter of 1.500 inches; and
                    (C) contain 90 percent silver and 10 percent 
                copper.
            (3) Half dollar clad coins.--The Secretary shall mint and 
        issue not more than 750,000 half dollar clad coins, which 
        shall--
                    (A) weigh 11.34 grams;
                    (B) have a diameter of 1.205 inches; and
                    (C) be minted to the specifications for half dollar 
                clad coins in section 5112(b) of title 31, United 
                States Code.
    (b) Legal Tender.--The coins minted under this Act shall be legal 
tender, as provided in section 5103 of title 31, United States Code.
    (c) Numismatic Items.--For purposes of sections 5134 and 5136 of 
title 31, United States Code, all coins minted under this Act shall be 
considered to be numismatic items.

SEC. 4. DESIGN OF COINS.

    (a) Design Requirements.--
            (1) In general.--The design of the coins minted under this 
        Act shall be emblematic of the 100th anniversary of the 
        National Park Service.
            (2) Designation and inscriptions.--On each coin minted 
        under this Act there shall be--
                    (A) a designation of the face value of the coin;
                    (B) an inscription of the year ``2016''; and
                    (C) inscriptions of the words ``Liberty'', ``In God 
                We Trust'', ``United States of America'', and ``E 
                Pluribus Unum''.
    (b) Selection.--The design for the coins minted under this Act 
shall be--
            (1) selected by the Secretary after consultation with--
                    (A) the National Park Service;
                    (B) the National Park Foundation; and
                    (C) the Commission of Fine Arts; and
            (2) reviewed by the Citizens Coinage Advisory Committee.

SEC. 5. ISSUANCE OF COINS.

    (a) Quality of Coins.--Coins minted under this Act shall be issued 
in uncirculated and proof qualities.
    (b) Period for Issuance.--The Secretary may issue coins minted 
under this Act only during the period beginning on January 1, 2016, and 
ending on December 31, 2016.

SEC. 6. SALE OF COINS.

    (a) Sale Price.--The coins issued under this Act shall be sold by 
the Secretary at a price equal to the sum of--
            (1) the face value of the coins;
            (2) the surcharge provided in section 7(a) with respect to 
        the coins; and
            (3) the cost of designing and issuing the coins (including 
        labor, materials, dies, use of machinery, overhead expenses, 
        marketing, and shipping).
    (b) Bulk Sales.--The Secretary shall make bulk sales of the coins 
issued under this Act at a reasonable discount.
    (c) Prepaid Orders.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary shall accept prepaid orders 
        for the coins minted under this Act before the issuance of such 
        coins.
            (2) Discount.--Sale prices with respect to prepaid orders 
        under paragraph (1) shall be at a reasonable discount.

SEC. 7. SURCHARGES.

    (a) In General.--All sales of coins minted under this Act shall 
include--
            (1) a surcharge of $35 per coin for the $5 coin;
            (2) a surcharge of $10 per coin for the $1 coin; and
            (3) a surcharge of $5 per coin for the half dollar coin.
    (b) Distribution.--
            (1) In general.--Subject to section 5134(f) of title 31, 
        United States Code, all surcharges that are received by the 
        Secretary from the sale of coins issued under this Act shall be 
        promptly paid by the Secretary to the National Park Foundation 
        for projects and programs that help preserve and protect 
        resources under the stewardship of the National Park Service 
        and promote public enjoyment and appreciation of those 
        resources.
            (2) Prohibition on land acquisition.--Surcharges paid to 
        the National Park Foundation pursuant to paragraph (1) may not 
        be used for land acquisition.
    (c) Audits.--The National Park Foundation shall be subject to the 
audit requirements of section 5134(f)(2) of title 31, United States 
Code, with regard to the amounts received by the National Park 
Foundation under subsection (b).
    (d) Limitations.--Notwithstanding subsection (a), no surcharge may 
be included with respect to the issuance under this Act of any coin 
during a calendar year if, as of the time of such issuance, the 
issuance of such coin would result in the number of commemorative coin 
programs issued during such year to exceed the 2 commemorative coin 
program issuance limitation under section 5112(m)(1) of title 31, 
United States Code (as in effect on the date of enactment of this Act). 
The Secretary may issue guidance to carry out this subsection.
                                 <all>
