
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H. Res. 458 Engrossed in House (EH)]

H. Res. 458

                In the House of Representatives, U. S.,

                                                      January 15, 2014.
    Resolved, That upon adoption of this resolution it shall be in order to take 
from the Speaker's table the bill (H.R. 3547) to extend the application of 
certain space launch liability provisions through 2014, with the Senate 
amendments thereto, and to consider in the House, without intervention of any 
point of order, a single motion offered by the chair of the Committee on 
Appropriations or his designee that the House: (1) concur in the Senate 
amendment to the title; and (2) concur in the Senate amendment to the text with 
an amendment inserting the text of Rules Committee Print 113-32 (as modified by 
section 6 of this resolution) in lieu of the matter proposed to be inserted by 
the Senate. The Senate amendments and the motion shall be considered as read. 
The motion shall be debatable for one hour equally divided and controlled by the 
chair and ranking minority member of the Committee on Appropriations. The 
previous question shall be considered as ordered on the motion to adoption 
without intervening motion or demand for division of the question.
    Sec. 2.  Upon adoption of the motion specified in the first section of this 
resolution, House Concurrent Resolution 74 shall be considered as adopted.
    Sec. 3.  The chair of the Committee on Appropriations may insert in the 
Congressional Record not later than January 16, 2014, such material as he may 
deem explanatory of the Senate amendments and the motion specified in the first 
section of this resolution.
    Sec. 4.  On any legislative day during the period from January 17, 2014, 
through January 24, 2014--
     (a) the Journal of the proceedings of the previous day shall be considered 
as approved; and
    (b) the Chair may at any time declare the House adjourned to meet at a date 
and time, within the limits of clause 4, section 5, article I of the 
Constitution, to be announced by the Chair in declaring the adjournment.
    Sec. 5.  The Speaker may appoint Members to perform the duties of the Chair 
for the duration of the period addressed by section 4 of this resolution as 
though under clause 8(a) of rule I.
    Sec. 6.  The modification referred to in the first section of this 
resolution is as follows: page 363, strike lines 12 through 16 and insert the 
following:
            ``(1) Combat-related special compensation.--Section 1413a(b)(3) of 
        title 10, United States Code, is amended--
                    ``(A) in subparagraph (A), by inserting `, with adjustment 
                under paragraph (2) of section 1401a(b) of this title to which 
                the member would have been entitled (but without the application 
                of paragraph (4) of such section),' after `under any other 
                provision of law'; and
                    ``(B) in subparagraph (B), by striking `whichever is 
                applicable to the member.' and inserting `with adjustment under 
                paragraph (2) of section 1401a(b) of this title to which the 
                member would have been entitled (but without the application of 
                paragraph (4) of such section), whichever is applicable to the 
                member.'.''.
            Attest:

                                                                          Clerk.
