
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H. Res. 146 Reported in House (RH)]

                                                  House Calendar No. 15
113th CONGRESS
  1st Session
H. RES. 146

                          [Report No. 113-32]

  Providing for consideration of the bill (H.R. 1120) to prohibit the 
 National Labor Relations Board from taking any action that requires a 
      quorum of the members of the Board until such time as Board 
  constituting a quorum shall have been confirmed by the Senate, the 
    Supreme Court issues a decision on the constitutionality of the 
appointments to the Board made in January 2012, or the adjournment sine 
            die of the first session of the 113th Congress.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                             April 10, 2013

     Ms. Foxx, from the Committee on Rules, reported the following 
resolution; which was referred to the House Calendar and ordered to be 
                                printed

_______________________________________________________________________

                               RESOLUTION


 
  Providing for consideration of the bill (H.R. 1120) to prohibit the 
 National Labor Relations Board from taking any action that requires a 
      quorum of the members of the Board until such time as Board 
  constituting a quorum shall have been confirmed by the Senate, the 
    Supreme Court issues a decision on the constitutionality of the 
appointments to the Board made in January 2012, or the adjournment sine 
            die of the first session of the 113th Congress.

    Resolved, That upon the adoption of this resolution it shall be in 
order to consider in the House the bill (H.R. 1120) to prohibit the 
National Labor Relations Board from taking any action that requires a 
quorum of the members of the Board until such time as Board 
constituting a quorum shall have been confirmed by the Senate, the 
Supreme Court issues a decision on the constitutionality of the 
appointments to the Board made in January 2012, or the adjournment sine 
die of the first session of the 113th Congress. All points of order 
against consideration of the bill are waived. In lieu of the amendment 
in the nature of a substitute recommended by the Committee on Education 
and the Workforce now printed in the bill, an amendment in the nature 
of a substitute consisting of the text of Rules Committee Print 113-6, 
shall be considered as adopted. The bill, as amended, shall be 
considered as read. All points of order against provisions in the bill, 
as amended, are waived. The previous question shall be considered as 
ordered on the bill, as amended, and on any further amendment thereto, 
to final passage without intervening motion except: (1) one hour of 
debate equally divided and controlled by the chair and ranking minority 
member of the Committee on Education and the Workforce; and (2) one 
motion to recommit with or without instructions.
                                                  House Calendar No. 15

113th CONGRESS

  1st Session

                              H. RES. 146

                          [Report No. 113-32]

_______________________________________________________________________

                               RESOLUTION

  Providing for consideration of the bill (H.R. 1120) to prohibit the 
 National Labor Relations Board from taking any action that requires a 
      quorum of the members of the Board until such time as Board 
  constituting a quorum shall have been confirmed by the Senate, the 
    Supreme Court issues a decision on the constitutionality of the 
appointments to the Board made in January 2012, or the adjournment sine 
            die of the first session of the 113th Congress.

_______________________________________________________________________

                             April 10, 2013

        Referred to the House Calendar and ordered to be printed
