
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H. Res. 271 Engrossed in House (EH)]

H. Res. 271

                In the House of Representatives, U. S.,

                                                         June 19, 2013.
    Resolved, That at any time after the adoption of this resolution the Speaker 
may, pursuant to clause 2(b) of rule XVIII, declare the House resolved into the 
Committee of the Whole House on the state of the Union for further consideration 
of the bill (H.R. 1947) to provide for the reform and continuation of 
agricultural and other programs of the Department of Agriculture through fiscal 
year 2018, and for other purposes. No further general debate shall be in order.
    Sec. 2. (a) In lieu of the amendments recommended by the Committees on 
Agriculture and the Judiciary now printed in the bill, it shall be in order to 
consider as an original bill for the purpose of amendment under the five-minute 
rule an amendment in the nature of a substitute consisting of the text of Rules 
Committee Print 113-14, modified by the amendment printed in part A of the 
report of the Committee on Rules accompanying this resolution. That amendment in 
the nature of a substitute shall be considered as read. All points of order 
against that amendment in the nature of a substitute are waived.
    (b) No amendment to the amendment in the nature of a substitute made in 
order as original text shall be in order except those printed in part B of the 
report of the Committee on Rules accompanying this resolution and amendments en 
bloc described in section 3 of this resolution.
    (c) Each amendment printed in part B of the report of the Committee on Rules 
shall be considered only in the order printed in the report, may be offered only 
by a Member designated in the report, shall be considered as read, shall be 
debatable for the time specified in the report equally divided and controlled by 
the proponent and an opponent, may be withdrawn by its proponent at any time 
before action thereon, shall not be subject to amendment, and shall not be 
subject to a demand for division of the question in the House or in the 
Committee of the Whole.
    (d) All points of order against amendments printed in part B of the report 
of the Committee on Rules or against amendments en bloc described in section 3 
of this resolution are waived.
    Sec. 3.  It shall be in order at any time for the chair of the Committee on 
Agriculture or his designee to offer amendments en bloc consisting of amendments 
printed in part B of the report of the Committee on Rules accompanying this 
resolution not earlier disposed of. Amendments en bloc offered pursuant to this 
section shall be considered as read, shall be debatable for 20 minutes equally 
divided and controlled by the chair and ranking minority member of the Committee 
on Agriculture or their designees, shall not be subject to amendment, and shall 
not be subject to a demand for division of the question in the House or in the 
Committee of the Whole. The original proponent of an amendment included in such 
amendments en bloc may insert a statement in the Congressional Record 
immediately before the disposition of the amendments en bloc.
    Sec. 4.  At the conclusion of consideration of the bill for amendment the 
Committee shall rise and report the bill to the House with such amendments as 
may have been adopted. Any Member may demand a separate vote in the House on any 
amendment adopted in the Committee of the Whole to the bill or to the amendment 
in the nature of a substitute made in order as original text. The previous 
question shall be considered as ordered on the bill and amendments thereto to 
final passage without intervening motion except one motion to recommit with or 
without instructions.
            Attest:

                                                                          Clerk.
