
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 2968 Introduced in House (IH)]

113th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                H. R. 2968

    To amend titles 23 and 49, United States Code, with respect to 
congestion mitigation and metropolitan transportation planning, and for 
                            other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                             August 1, 2013

  Mr. Sires introduced the following bill; which was referred to the 
             Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
    To amend titles 23 and 49, United States Code, with respect to 
congestion mitigation and metropolitan transportation planning, and for 
                            other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Commute Less Act of 2013''.

SEC. 2. METROPOLITAN TRANSPORTATION PLANNING.

    (a) Definitions.--Section 5303(b) of title 49, United States Code, 
is amended--
            (1) by redesignating paragraph (7) as paragraph (9);
            (2) by redesignating paragraphs (1) through (6) as 
        paragraphs (2) through (7), respectively;
            (3) by inserting before paragraph (2) (as so redesignated 
        by paragraph (2) of this subsection) the following:
            ``(1) Employer-based commuter program.--The term `employer-
        based commuter program' means a program implemented by an 
        employer that provides employees of that employer with 
        alternatives to driving to and from work in a vehicle occupied 
        by a single individual, including the following:
                    ``(A) A carpool program.
                    ``(B) A vanpool program.
                    ``(C) A transit benefit program.
                    ``(D) A parking cash-out program.
                    ``(E) A shuttle program.
                    ``(F) A telework program.''; and
            (4) by inserting before paragraph (9) (as so redesignated 
        by paragraph (1) of this subsection) the following:
            ``(8) Transportation management organization.--The term 
        `transportation management organization' means a local, 
        regional, or statewide association of employers established for 
        the purpose of providing employees of those employers with 
        alternatives to driving to and from work in a vehicle occupied 
        by a single individual.''.
    (b) Development of Transportation Plan.--
            (1) Transportation plan.--Section 5303(i)(2) of title 49, 
        United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the 
        following:
                    ``(I) Employer outreach activities and 
                strategies.--Proposed activities and strategies to 
                provide outreach to employers and transportation 
                management organizations to facilitate the creation and 
                expansion of employer-based commuter programs.''.
            (2) Participation by interested parties.--Section 
        5303(i)(6)(A) of title 49, United States Code, is amended by 
        inserting after ``the disabled,'' the following: 
        ``representatives of employers and transportation management 
        organizations,''.
    (c) Metropolitan TIP.--Section 5303(j)(2)(A) of title 49, United 
States Code, is amended by striking the period at the end and inserting 
``, including projects identified in a relevant commuter trip reduction 
plan developed under subsection (r).''.
    (d) Transportation Management Areas.--Section 5303(k)(3) of title 
49, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following:
                    ``(C) Employer involvement.--A process for 
                addressing congestion management under subparagraph (A) 
                shall be developed in coordination with any relevant 
                employer advisory council established under subsection 
                (r) and shall include projects identified in the 
                commuter trip reduction plan of that council.''.
    (e) Employer Advisory Councils and Information Clearinghouse.--
Section 5303 of title 49, United States Code, is amended by adding at 
the end the following:
    ``(r) Employer Advisory Councils.--
            ``(1) In general.--Each metropolitan planning organization 
        serving a transportation management area shall establish an 
        employer advisory council that consists of representatives of 
        employers in the area served by the metropolitan planning 
        organization.
            ``(2) Membership.--
                    ``(A) In general.--An employer advisory council 
                shall consist of not less than 7 representatives of 
                employers and representatives of identified 
                transportation management organizations in the area 
                served by the relevant metropolitan planning 
                organization.
                    ``(B) Ensuring a diverse cross-section of 
                employers.--In establishing an employer advisory 
                council, a metropolitan planning organization, to the 
                extent practicable, shall ensure that the membership of 
                the council includes a diverse cross-section of 
                employers from the area served by the organization.
            ``(3) Commuter trip reduction plan.--An employer advisory 
        council established under paragraph (1) shall develop and 
        maintain a commuter trip reduction plan that identifies--
                    ``(A) commuting patterns in the area served by the 
                relevant metropolitan planning organization;
                    ``(B) area goals for the reduction of vehicle miles 
                traveled during peak commuting hours;
                    ``(C) existing and proposed employer-based commuter 
                programs in the area;
                    ``(D) a series of projects and activities to 
                facilitate achievement of the goals identified under 
                subparagraph (B); and
                    ``(E) a financing plan for the projects and 
                activities identified under subparagraph (D).
    ``(s) Information Clearinghouse.--The Secretary is authorized to 
make a grant to a national nonprofit organization engaged in efforts 
relating to employer-based commuter programs or another entity to--
            ``(1) establish and operate an information clearinghouse 
        relating to employer investment in transportation and employer-
        based commuter programs;
            ``(2) develop an education program with respect to employer 
        investment in transportation and employer-based commuter 
        programs; and
            ``(3) provide technical assistance relating to employer-
        based commuter programs and disseminate techniques and 
        strategies used by successful employer-based commuter 
        programs.''.

SEC. 3. CONGESTION MITIGATION DURING PROJECT CONSTRUCTION.

    Section 106 of title 23, United States Code, is amended by adding 
at the end the following:
    ``(k) Congestion Mitigation Plans.--
            ``(1) Requirement.--A recipient of Federal financial 
        assistance under this title for a project with an estimated 
        total cost of $75,000,000 or more or that will reduce traffic 
        flow (as defined by the Secretary) for more than 120 days shall 
        prepare a congestion mitigation plan for such project that 
        includes funding for projects to reduce vehicle miles traveled 
        during peak commuting hours along the impacted corridor.
            ``(2) Coordination.--A recipient shall prepare a congestion 
        mitigation plan under paragraph (1) in coordination with any 
        relevant employer advisory council established under section 
        5303(r) of title 49.
            ``(3) Review by secretary.--A congestion mitigation plan 
        prepared under paragraph (1) shall be made available to the 
        Secretary for review upon the request of the Secretary.''.

SEC. 4. EMPLOYER-BASED COMMUTER PROGRAMS ACTION PLAN.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary of Transportation shall develop and 
implement a plan to expand and promote employer-based commuter programs 
(as defined in section 5303(b) of title 49, United States Code).
    (b) Contents.--The plan developed under subsection (a) shall 
include plans--
            (1) to amend existing regulations and guidance and, if 
        necessary, develop new regulations and guidance to ensure that 
        employer-based commuter programs are integrated, to the extent 
        possible, into all appropriate Federal transportation programs;
            (2) to identify best practices with respect to employer-
        based commuter programs;
            (3) to research the effectiveness and efficiency of 
        employer-based commuter programs; and
            (4) to create a national and regional peer exchange program 
        to ensure that developments with respect to employer-based 
        commuter programs are shared and issues are addressed.
    (c) Timing.--Not later than 180 days after the date of enactment of 
this Act, the Secretary shall finalize and begin implementation of the 
plan developed under subsection (a).
    (d) Report to Congress.--Not later than 2 years after the date of 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall submit to the Committee on 
Transportation and Infrastructure of the House of Representatives and 
the Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs and the Committee 
on Environment and Public Works of the Senate a report on the 
implementation and impact of the plan developed under subsection (a).

SEC. 5. DISASTER PREPAREDNESS REPORT.

    (a) In General.--Not later than 1 year after the date of enactment 
of this Act, the Secretary of Transportation shall submit to the 
Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of the House of 
Representatives and the Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban 
Affairs and the Committee on Environment and Public Works of the Senate 
a report with recommendations on how to better integrate employer-based 
commuter programs (as defined in section 5303(b) of title 49, United 
States Code) into emergency planning, preparedness, and response 
activities.
    (b) Coordination.--In preparing the report under subsection (a), 
the Secretary shall consult with--
            (1) the Administrator of the Federal Emergency Management 
        Agency; and
            (2) stakeholders, including national and regional 
        organizations and experts that promote employer-based commuter 
        programs.
                                 <all>
