
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H. Res. 676 Reported in House (RH)]

                                                 House Calendar No. 129
113th CONGRESS
  2d Session
H. RES. 676

                          [Report No. 113-561]

   Providing for authority to initiate litigation for actions by the 
 President or other executive branch officials inconsistent with their 
          duties under the Constitution of the United States.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                             July 22, 2014

Mr. Sessions submitted the following resolution; which was referred to 
   the Committee on Rules, and in addition to the Committee on House 
   Administration, for a period to be subsequently determined by the 
  Speaker, in each case for consideration of such provisions as fall 
           within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned

                             July 28, 2014

                       Reported with an amendment
  [Omit the part struck through and insert the part printed in italic]

                             July 28, 2014

The Committee on House Administration discharged; referred to the House 
                   Calendar and ordered to be printed

_______________________________________________________________________

                               RESOLUTION


 
   Providing for authority to initiate litigation for actions by the 
 President or other executive branch officials inconsistent with their 
          duties under the Constitution of the United States.

    Resolved, That the Speaker is authorized to initiate or intervene 
in one or more civil actions on behalf of the House of Representatives 
in a Federal court of competent jurisdiction to seek any appropriate 
relief regarding the failure of the President, the head of any 
department or agency, or any other officer or employee of the executive 
branch, to act in a manner consistent with that official's duties under 
the Constitution and laws of the United States with respect to 
implementation of any provision of the Patient Protection and 
Affordable Care Act, title I or subtitle B of title II of the Health 
Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010, including any amendment 
made by such provision, or any other related provision of law, 
including a failure to implement any such provision.
    Sec. 2.  The Speaker shall notify the House of Representatives of a 
decision to initiate or intervene in any civil action pursuant to this 
resolution.
    Sec. 3. (a) The Office<DELETED>The Office</DELETED> of the General 
Counsel of the House of Representatives, at the direction of the 
Speaker, shall represent the House in any civil action initiated, or in 
which the House intervenes, pursuant to this resolution, and may employ 
the services of outside counsel and other experts for this purpose.
    (b) The chair of the Committee on House Administration shall cause 
to be printed in the Congressional Record a statement setting forth the 
aggregate amounts expended by the Office of General Counsel on outside 
counsel and other experts pursuant to subsection (a) on a quarterly 
basis. Such statement shall be submitted for printing not more than 30 
days after the expiration of each such period.
                                                 House Calendar No. 129

113th CONGRESS

  2d Session

                              H. RES. 676

                          [Report No. 113-561]

_______________________________________________________________________

                               RESOLUTION

   Providing for authority to initiate litigation for actions by the 
 President or other executive branch officials inconsistent with their 
          duties under the Constitution of the United States.

_______________________________________________________________________

                             July 28, 2014

                       Reported with an amendment

                             July 28, 2014

        Referred to the House Calendar and ordered to be printed
