
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[S. 2327 Introduced in Senate (IS)]

113th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                S. 2327

  To make continuing appropriations for certain programs that benefit 
          sportsmen in the event of a lapse in appropriations.


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                              May 13, 2014

   Mr. Walsh introduced the following bill; which was read twice and 
              referred to the Committee on Appropriations

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
  To make continuing appropriations for certain programs that benefit 
          sportsmen in the event of a lapse in appropriations.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Keeping Public Lands Open Act''.

SEC. 2. FINDINGS.

    Congress finds that--
            (1) units of the National Park System, units of the 
        National Forest System, units of the National Wildlife Refuge 
        System, and other public land--
                    (A) are an integral part of the conservation 
                heritage of the United States;
                    (B) provide many recreational opportunities; and
                    (C) support jobs and economic activity in 
                communities across the United States, including in many 
                rural areas; and
            (2) it is critical that the public have uninterrupted 
        access to the national treasures referred to in paragraph (1).

SEC. 3. AUTOMATIC CONTINUING APPROPRIATIONS FOR CERTAIN COVERED 
              ACCOUNTS.

    (a) Definition of Covered Account.--In this section, the term 
``covered account'' means each of the following appropriation accounts:
            (1) Within the Department of the Interior for the Fish and 
        Wildlife Service, within the resource management appropriation, 
        amounts made available for--
                    (A) the activities of the National Wildlife Refuge 
                System; and
                    (B) habitat conservation.
            (2) Within the Department of the Interior for the Fish and 
        Wildlife Service, the appropriation for the Migratory Bird 
        Conservation Account.
            (3) Within the Department of Agriculture for the Forest 
        Service, within the National Forest System appropriation, 
        amounts made available for--
                    (A) the activities of recreation, heritage, and 
                wilderness; and
                    (B) law enforcement operations.
            (4) Within the Department of the Interior for the Bureau of 
        Land Management, within the management of land and resources 
        appropriation, amounts made available for--
                    (A) the activities of recreation management, 
                resource protection, and maintenance; and
                    (B) the National Landscape Conservation System.
            (5) Within the Department of the Interior for the National 
        Park Service, the appropriation for the operation of the 
        National Park System.
            (6) Within the Department of the Interior for the Fish and 
        Wildlife Service, the appropriation for the North American 
        Wetlands Conservation Fund.
            (7) Within the Department of the Interior for the United 
        States Fish and Wildlife Service, within the resource 
        management appropriation, under the activity of general 
        operations, the amounts made available for the National Fish 
        and Wildlife Foundation.
            (8) Within the Department of the Interior for the United 
        States Fish and Wildlife Service, the appropriation for land 
        acquisition.
            (9) Within the Department of Agriculture for the Forest 
        Service, the appropriation for land acquisition.
            (10) Within the Department of the Interior for the Bureau 
        of Land Management, the appropriation for land acquisition.
            (11) Within the Department of the Interior for the National 
        Park Service, the appropriation for land acquisition and State 
        assistance.
    (b) Authorization for Continuing Appropriations.--If an 
appropriations measure for a covered account for a fiscal year is not 
enacted before the beginning of the applicable fiscal year and a joint 
resolution making continuing appropriations for the covered account is 
not in effect, such sums as may be necessary shall be made available 
without further appropriation to continue any program, project, or 
activity for which funds were provided from the covered account in the 
preceding fiscal year.
    (c) Amount of Appropriations and Funds.--Appropriations and funds 
made available under this section for a program, project, or activity 
funded by a covered account shall be in an amount equal to a pro rata 
amount of the annual funding provided for the program, project, or 
activity in the preceding appropriations Act or, in the absence of a 
regular appropriations Act, a joint resolution making continuing 
appropriations for the preceding fiscal year.
    (d) Availability of Amounts.--Appropriations and funds made 
available, and authority granted, under this section for a program, 
project, or activity funded by a covered account shall be available for 
the period beginning with the first day of a lapse in appropriations 
and ending on the date of enactment of the applicable appropriations 
Act or a joint resolution making continuing appropriations until the 
end of the fiscal year, whether or not the Act or resolution provides 
for the program, project, or activity.
    (e) Requirements.--Amounts made available, or authority granted, 
for a program, project, or activity funded by a covered account for any 
fiscal year under this Act shall be subject to--
            (1) the terms and conditions imposed with respect to the 
        program, project, or activity for the preceding fiscal year; 
        and
            (2) the authority granted for the program, project, or 
        activity funded by the covered account under applicable law.
    (f) Applicable Accounts.--Expenditures made for a program, project, 
or activity funded by a covered account for any fiscal year under this 
Act shall be charged to the applicable covered account on the date of 
enactment of an appropriations Act or a joint resolution making 
continuing appropriations until the end of a fiscal year that provides 
funds for the program, project, or activity for the applicable period.
    (g) Exclusions.--This section shall not apply to a program, 
project, or activity funded by a covered account during a fiscal year 
if any other provision of law (other than a change in authorization of 
appropriations)--
            (1) makes an appropriation, makes funds available, or 
        grants authority for the program, project, or activity to 
        continue for the applicable period; or
            (2) specifically provides that no appropriation shall be 
        made, no funds shall be made available, or no authority shall 
        be granted for the program, project, or activity to continue 
        for the applicable period.
                                 <all>
