
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 3779 Introduced in House (IH)]

113th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                H. R. 3779

  To require the Director of National Intelligence to annually submit 
  reports on violations of law or executive order by personnel of the 
            intelligence community, and for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                           December 16, 2013

 Mr. Himes (for himself and Mr. Schiff) introduced the following bill; 
 which was referred to the Select Committee on Intelligence (Permanent 
                                Select)

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
  To require the Director of National Intelligence to annually submit 
  reports on violations of law or executive order by personnel of the 
            intelligence community, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. ANNUAL REPORT ON VIOLATIONS OF LAW OR EXECUTIVE ORDER.

    (a) In General.--Title V of the National Security Act of 1947 (50 
U.S.C. 3091 et seq.) is amended by adding at the end the following:

``SEC. 509. ANNUAL REPORT ON VIOLATIONS OF LAW OR EXECUTIVE ORDER.

    ``(a) Annual Reports Required.--The Director of National 
Intelligence shall annually submit to the congressional intelligence 
committees a report on violations of law or executive order by 
personnel of an element of the intelligence community that were 
identified during the previous calendar year.
    ``(b) Elements.--Each report required under subsection (a) shall 
include a description of, and any action taken in response to, any 
violation of law or executive order (including Executive Order 12333 
(50 U.S.C. 3001 note)) by personnel of an element of the intelligence 
community in the course of such employment that, during the previous 
calendar year, was determined by the director, head, general counsel, 
or inspector general of any element of the intelligence community to 
have occurred or more than likely to have occurred.''.
    (b) Initial Report.--The first report required under section 509 of 
the National Security Act of 1947, as added by subsection (a), shall be 
submitted not later than one year after the date of the enactment of 
this Act.
    (c) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections in the first section 
of the National Security Act of 1947 is amended by adding after the 
section relating to section 508 the following:

``Sec. 509. Annual report on violations of law or executive order.''.
                                 <all>
