
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 1899 Introduced in House (IH)]

113th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                H. R. 1899

 To prohibit business enterprises that lay off a greater percentage of 
   their United States workers than workers in other countries from 
       receiving any Federal assistance, and for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                              May 8, 2013

Mr. Visclosky introduced the following bill; which was referred to the 
              Committee on Oversight and Government Reform

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
 To prohibit business enterprises that lay off a greater percentage of 
   their United States workers than workers in other countries from 
       receiving any Federal assistance, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Fighting for American Jobs Act of 
2013''.

SEC. 2. GENERAL REPORTING REQUIREMENTS FOR RECEIPT OF FEDERAL 
              ASSISTANCE BY BUSINESS ENTERPRISES.

    (a) Initial Requirement.--Each Federal department or agency that 
provides contracts, grants, loans, or loan guarantees to business 
enterprises after the date of the enactment of this Act shall require 
that, as condition of receipt of a contract, grant, loan, or loan 
guarantee, a business enterprise shall provide to the department or 
agency on an annual basis for the duration of the contract, grant, 
loan, or loan guarantee the following information:
            (1) The number of individuals employed by the business 
        enterprise in the United States.
            (2) The number of individuals employed by the business 
        enterprise outside the United States.
            (3) A description of the wages and benefits being provided 
        to the employees of the business enterprise in the United 
        States.
    (b) Subsequent Requirement.--Beginning 1 year after the date on 
which a Federal department or agency provides a contract, grant, loan, 
or loan guarantee to a business enterprise after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the department or agency shall require the 
business enterprise to provide to the department or agency on an annual 
basis for the duration of the contract, grant, loan, or loan guarantee 
a written certification that contains the following information:
            (1) The percentage of the workforce of the business 
        enterprise employed in the United States that has been laid off 
        or induced to resign from the business enterprise during the 
        preceding year.
            (2) The percentage of the total workforce of the business 
        enterprise that has been laid off or induced to resign from the 
        business enterprise during the preceding year.

SEC. 3. PROHIBITION ON FEDERAL ASSISTANCE TO BUSINESS ENTERPRISES THAT 
              LAY OFF A GREATER PERCENTAGE OF WORKERS IN THE UNITED 
              STATES THAN IN OTHER COUNTRIES.

    Notwithstanding any other provision of law, if, in a written 
certification provided to a Federal department or agency by a business 
enterprise under section 2(b), the percentage described in section 
2(b)(1) is greater than the percentage described in section 2(b)(2), 
then the business enterprise shall be ineligible for further assistance 
from the department or agency, and shall be ineligible for assistance 
from any other Federal department or agency, unless and until the 
business enterprise provides to the department or agency involved a new 
written certification which provides that the percentage of the 
workforce of the business enterprise employed in the United States is 
equal to or greater than such percentage for the year preceding the 
year for which the written certification under section 2(b) was 
provided.

SEC. 4. DEFINITIONS.

    In this Act:
            (1) The term ``United States'' includes the several States, 
        the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, the Northern Mariana 
        Islands, the Virgin Islands, Guam, American Samoa, and any 
        other territory or possession of the United States.
            (2) The term ``business enterprise'' does not include a 
        small business concern, as defined under the Small Business Act 
        and regulations implementing that Act.
                                 <all>
