
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 4054 Introduced in House (IH)]

113th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                H. R. 4054

  To make supplemental appropriations to provide additional funds to 
       Americorps for the fiscal year ending September 30, 2014.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                           February 11, 2014

  Ms. Norton (for herself, Mr. Farr, Mr. Conyers, and Mr. Cartwright) 
 introduced the following bill; which was referred to the Committee on 
                             Appropriations

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
  To make supplemental appropriations to provide additional funds to 
       Americorps for the fiscal year ending September 30, 2014.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Promoting National Service and 
Reducing Unemployment Act''.

SEC. 2. STATEMENT OF APPROPRIATIONS.

    The following sums are appropriated, out of any money in the 
Treasury not otherwise appropriated, for the fiscal year ending 
September 30, 2014.

             Corporation for National and Community Service

                           operating expenses

    For an additional amount for the Corporation for National and 
Community Service to carry out the National and Community Service Act 
of 1990, and notwithstanding sections 198B(b)(3), 198S(g), 
501(a)(4)(C), 501(a)(4)(E), and 501(a)(5)(F) of such Act, 
$7,892,775,570: Provided, That of such amount up to 1 percent of 
program grant funds may be used to defray the costs of conducting grant 
application reviews, including the use of outside peer reviewers and 
electronic management of the grants cycle: Provided further, That 
$1,878,275,570, to remain available until expended, shall be paid to 
the National Service Trust for expenses authorized under subtitle D of 
title I of such Act: Provided further, That in addition to the amounts 
provided in the previous proviso, the Corporation may transfer funds 
from the amounts allocated to grants under subtitle C of title I of 
such Act, upon determination that such transfer is necessary to support 
the activities of national service participants and after notice is 
transmitted to the Congress: Provided further, That $9,800,000 shall be 
available for expenses to carry out sections 112(e), 179A, and 198O and 
subtitle J of title I of such Act, notwithstanding section 501(a)(6) of 
such Act: Provided further, That $15,000,000 shall be available for 
grants to public or private nonprofit institutions to increase the 
participation of individuals with disabilities in national service and 
for demonstration activities in furtherance of this purpose, 
notwithstanding section 129(k)(1) of such Act: Provided further, That 
$8,000,000 shall be available to provide assistance to State Service 
Commissions, under section 126(a) of such Act and notwithstanding 
section 501(a)(5)(B) of such Act.

                         salaries and expenses

    For an additional amount for necessary expenses of administration 
as provided under section 501(a)(5) of the National and Community 
Service Act of 1990 including payment of salaries, authorized travel, 
hire of passenger motor vehicles, the rental of conference rooms in the 
District of Columbia, and the employment of experts and consultants 
authorized under section 3109 of title 5, United States Code, 
$37,500,000.

                      office of inspector general

    For an additional amount for necessary expenses of the Office of 
Inspector General in carrying out the Inspector General Act of 1978, 
$8,000,000.

SEC. 3. REQUIREMENT.

    The funds appropriated in this section shall be used by the 
Corporation toward the goal of increasing the number of national 
service positions approved under subtitle C of title I of the 1990 Act 
to 500,000. In carrying out this section, the Corporation shall give 
preference to national service programs which propose to use full-time 
national service positions.
                                 <all>
