
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[S. 584 Introduced in Senate (IS)]

113th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                 S. 584

 For the relief of Jorge Rojas Gutierrez, Oliva Gonzalez Gonzalez, and 
                         Jorge Rojas Gonzalez.


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                             March 18, 2013

Mrs. Feinstein introduced the following bill; which was read twice and 
               referred to the Committee on the Judiciary

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
 For the relief of Jorge Rojas Gutierrez, Oliva Gonzalez Gonzalez, and 
                         Jorge Rojas Gonzalez.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. PERMANENT RESIDENT STATUS FOR JORGE ROJAS GUTIERREZ, OLIVA 
              GONZALEZ GONZALEZ, AND JORGE ROJAS GONZALEZ.

    (a) In General.--Notwithstanding subsections (a) and (b) of section 
201 of the Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1151), Jorge Rojas 
Gutierrez, Oliva Gonzalez Gonzalez, and Jorge Rojas Gonzalez shall each 
be eligible for the issuance of an immigrant visa or for adjustment of 
status to that of an alien lawfully admitted for permanent residence 
upon filing an application for issuance of an immigrant visa under 
section 204 of such Act (8 U.S.C. 1154) or for adjustment of status to 
lawful permanent resident.
    (b) Adjustment of Status.--If Jorge Rojas Gutierrez, Oliva Gonzalez 
Gonzalez, or Jorge Rojas Gonzalez enters the United States before the 
filing deadline specified in subsection (c), Jorge Rojas Gutierrez, 
Oliva Gonzalez Gonzalez, or Jorge Rojas Gonzalez, as appropriate, shall 
be considered to have entered and remained lawfully in the United 
States and shall be eligible for adjustment of status under section 245 
of the Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1255) as of the date 
of the enactment of this Act.
    (c) Deadline for Application and Payment of Fees.--Subsections (a) 
and (b) shall apply only if the application for the issuance of an 
immigrant visa or the application for adjustment of status is filed 
with appropriate fees not later than 2 years after the date of the 
enactment of this Act.
    (d) Reduction of Immigrant Visa Numbers.--Upon granting an 
immigrant visa or permanent residence to Jorge Rojas Gutierrez, Oliva 
Gonzalez Gonzalez, and Jorge Rojas Gonzalez, the Secretary of State 
shall instruct the proper officer to reduce by 3, during the current or 
subsequent fiscal year, the total number of immigrant visas that are 
made available to natives of the country of birth of Jorge Rojas 
Gutierrez, Oliva Gonzalez Gonzalez, and Jorge Rojas Gonzalez under 
section 203(a) of the Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 
1153(a)) or, if applicable, the total number of immigrant visas that 
are made available to natives of the country of birth of Jorge Rojas 
Gutierrez, Oliva Gonzalez Gonzalez, and Jorge Rojas Gonzalez under 
section 202(e) of such Act (8 U.S.C. 1152(e)).
    (e) PAYGO.--The budgetary effects of this Act, for the purpose of 
complying with the Statutory Pay-As-You-Go Act of 2010, shall be 
determined by reference to the latest statement titled ``Budgetary 
Effects of PAYGO Legislation'' for this Act, submitted for printing in 
the Congressional Record by the Chairman of the Senate Budget 
Committee, provided that such statement has been submitted prior to the 
vote on passage.
                                 <all>
