
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 1186 Introduced in House (IH)]

113th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                H. R. 1186

  To posthumously award the Congressional Gold Medal to each of Glen 
 Doherty and Tyrone Woods in recognition of their contributions to the 
                                Nation.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                             March 14, 2013

  Mr. Hunter (for himself, Mr. Johnson of Ohio, Mr. King of Iowa, Mr. 
 Gohmert, Mr. Wilson of South Carolina, Mr. Wolf, Mr. Weber of Texas, 
   Mr. Jordan, Mr. Wittman, and Mr. Broun of Georgia) introduced the 
   following bill; which was referred to the Committee on Financial 
                                Services

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
  To posthumously award the Congressional Gold Medal to each of Glen 
 Doherty and Tyrone Woods in recognition of their contributions to the 
                                Nation.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. FINDINGS.

    Congress makes the following findings:
            (1) On September 11, 2012, the United States consulate, and 
        its personnel in Benghazi, Libya, were attacked by militants.
            (2) Four Americans were killed in the attack, including 
        Ambassador J. Christopher Stevens, Sean Smith, Glen Doherty, 
        and Tyrone Woods.
            (3) Glen Doherty and Tyrone Woods were former Navy SEALs 
        who served as security personnel in Libya. As the attack 
        unfolded, they bravely attempted to defend American property 
        and protect United States diplomatic personnel. In so doing, 
        they selflessly sacrificed their own lives.
            (4) Glen Doherty was a Navy SEAL for 12 years and served in 
        Iraq and Afghanistan. He attained the rank of Petty Officer 
        First Class and earned the Navy and Marine Corps Commendation 
        Medal. After leaving the Navy, Glen Doherty worked with the 
        Department of State to protect American diplomats.
            (5) Tyrone Woods served for 20 years as a Navy SEAL 
        including tours in Iraq and Afghanistan. In Iraq he led 
        multiple raids and reconnaissance missions and earned the 
        Bronze Star. After retiring from the Navy as a Senior Chief 
        Petty Officer, Tyrone Woods worked with the Department of State 
        to protect American diplomats.

SEC. 2. CONGRESSIONAL GOLD MEDAL.

    (a) Award Authorized.--The Speaker of the House of Representatives 
and the President pro tempore of the Senate shall make appropriate 
arrangements for the posthumous award, on behalf of the Congress, of a 
gold medal of appropriate design in commemoration of Glen Doherty and 
Tyrone Woods in recognition of their contributions to the Nation.
    (b) Design and Striking.--For the purposes of the awards referred 
to in subsection (a), the Secretary of the Treasury (hereafter in this 
Act referred to as the ``Secretary'') shall strike the gold medals with 
suitable emblems, devices, and inscriptions, to be determined by the 
Secretary.

SEC. 3. DUPLICATE MEDALS.

    Under such regulations as the Secretary may prescribe, the 
Secretary may strike and sell duplicates in bronze of the gold medals 
struck under section 2, at a price sufficient to cover the costs of the 
medals, including labor, materials, dies, use of machinery, and 
overhead expenses, and the cost of the gold medals.

SEC. 4. NATIONAL MEDALS.

    Medals struck pursuant to this Act are National medals for purposes 
of chapter 51 of title 31, United States Code.

SEC. 5. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS; PROCEEDS OF SALE.

    (a) Authorization of Appropriations.--There is authorized to be 
charged against the United States Mint Public Enterprise Fund, such 
amounts as may be necessary to pay for the cost of the medals struck 
pursuant to this Act.
    (b) Proceeds of Sale.--Amounts received from the sale of duplicate 
bronze medals under section 3 shall be deposited in the United States 
Mint Public Enterprise Fund.
                                 <all>
