
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 1983 Introduced in House (IH)]

113th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                H. R. 1983

To amend the Food for Peace Act to reform the food assistance programs 
                under that Act, and for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                              May 15, 2013

  Mr. Royce (for himself and Ms. Bass) introduced the following bill; 
which was referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs, and in addition 
 to the Committees on Agriculture, Transportation and Infrastructure, 
 and Armed Services, for a period to be subsequently determined by the 
  Speaker, in each case for consideration of such provisions as fall 
           within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
To amend the Food for Peace Act to reform the food assistance programs 
                under that Act, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Food Aid Reform Act''.

             TITLE I--AMENDMENTS TO THE FOOD FOR PEACE ACT

SEC. 101. FOOD AID TO DEVELOPING COUNTRIES.

    Section 3(b)(1)(C) of the Food for Peace Act (7 U.S.C. 
1691a(b)(1)(C)) is amended--
            (1) by striking ``, provision of funds'' and inserting 
        ``and provision of funds''; and
            (2) by striking ``, and monetization of commodities,''.

SEC. 102. EMERGENCY AND PRIVATE ASSISTANCE PROGRAMS.

    (a) In General.--Title II of the Food for Peace Act is amended as 
follows:
            (1) In the title heading, by striking ``AND PRIVATE''.
            (2) In section 201 (7 U.S.C. 1721)--
                    (A) in the matter preceding paragraph (1), by 
                striking ``agricultural commodities'' and inserting 
                ``assistance, including agricultural commodities,''; 
                and
                    (B) in paragraph (4), by inserting ``inclusive and 
                sustainable'' after ``promote''.
            (3) In section 202 (7 U.S.C. 1722)--
                    (A) in the section heading, by striking 
                ``agricultural commodities'' and inserting ``emergency 
                assistance'';
                    (B) in subsection (a), by striking ``agricultural 
                commodities'' and inserting ``assistance, including 
                agricultural commodities,'';
                    (C) by striking subsections (b), (c), (d), and (e); 
                and
                    (D) in subsection (h)(3)--
                            (i) by striking ``section 207(f)'' and 
                        inserting ``section 207''; and
                            (ii) by striking ``fiscal years 2009 
                        through 2011'' and inserting ``fiscal years 
                        2014 through 2018''.
            (4) By striking section 203 (7 U.S.C. 1723).
            (5) By striking section 204 (7 U.S.C. 1724).
            (6) In section 205 (7 U.S.C. 1725)--
                    (A) in subsection (a), by striking ``that may 
                involve eligible organizations described in section 
                202(d)(1)''; and
                    (B) in subsection (f), by striking ``December 31, 
                2012'' and inserting ``September 30, 2018''.
            (7) In section 207(f) (7 U.S.C. 1726a(f))--
                    (A) in paragraph (2)--
                            (i) by striking subparagraph (D); and
                            (ii) by redesignating subparagraphs (E) and 
                        (F) as subparagraphs (D) and (E), respectively; 
                        and
                    (B) in paragraph (3), by striking ``Food, 
                Conservation, and Energy Act of 2008'' and inserting 
                ``Food Aid Reform Act''.
            (8) In section 207 (7 U.S.C. 1726a)--
                    (A) by striking subsections (a), (b), (c), (d), and 
                (e);
                    (B) in subsection (f)(2)--
                            (i) by striking subparagraph (D); and
                            (ii) by redesignating subparagraphs (E) and 
                        (F) as subparagraphs (D) and (E), respectively; 
                        and
                    (C) by adding at the end the following new 
                subsection:
    ``(h) Applicability of Administrative Authorities Under the Foreign 
Assistance Act of 1961.--The administrative authorities contained in 
chapter 2 of part III of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 
2381 et seq.) shall apply to programs carried out under this title to 
the same extent and in the same manner as such administrative 
authorities apply to programs carried out under such Act.''.
    (b) Retroactive Effective Date.--The amendment made by paragraph 
(6)(B) shall take effect as of December 31, 2012.

SEC. 103. GENERAL AUTHORITIES AND REQUIREMENTS.

    (a) In General.--Title IV of the Food for Peace Act is amended as 
follows:
            (1) In section 402 (7 U.S.C. 1732)--
                    (A) in paragraph (2)--
                            (i) by striking ``produced in the United 
                        States''; and
                            (ii) by striking the second sentence; and
                    (B) in paragraph (3)--
                            (i) by redesignating subparagraphs (B) and 
                        (C) as subparagraphs (C) and (D), respectively; 
                        and
                            (ii) by inserting after subparagraph (A) 
                        the following new subparagraph:
                    ``(B) the Committee on Foreign Relations of the 
                Senate;''.
            (2) In section 403(l)(1)(A) (7 U.S.C. 1733(l)(1)(A)), by 
        striking ``titles I and II'' and inserting ``title I''.
            (3) In section 404(c)(1) (7 U.S.C. 1734(c)(1)), by striking 
        ``eligible organizations'' and all that follows through ``under 
        title II'' and inserting ``eligible organizations may be made 
        available under titles I and III''.
            (4) In section 406(a) (7 U.S.C. 1736(a)), by inserting 
        ``may make available funds and'' before ``may acquire''.
            (5) In section 407(c) (7 U.S.C. 1736a)--
                    (A) in paragraph (1), by striking subparagraph (B);
                    (B) in paragraph (4)(A), by striking ``for fiscal 
                years 2001 through 2012''; and
                    (C) in paragraph (5)--
                            (i) in the heading, by striking 
                        ``Nonemergency or multiyear'' and inserting 
                        ``Multiyear''; and
                            (ii) by striking ``for ongoing nonemergency 
                        or''.
            (6) In section 408 (7 U.S.C. 1736b), by striking ``December 
        31, 2012'' and inserting ``September 30, 2018''.
    (b) Retroactive Effective Date.--The amendment made by paragraph 
(6) shall take effect as of December 31, 2012.

SEC. 104. EFFECTIVE DATE.

    Except as otherwise provided in this title, the amendments made by 
this title shall take effect on the date of the enactment of this Act 
and shall apply with respect to the provision of assistance under title 
II of the Food for Peace Act (as so amended) beginning on the date that 
is 180 days after such date of enactment.

                      TITLE II--CARGO PREFERENCES

SEC. 201. CARGO PREFERENCES.

    (a) Exemption.--Section 55313 of title 46, United States Code, is 
amended--
            (1) by striking ``Sections 55304 and 55305 of this title do 
        not apply'' and inserting the following:
    ``(a) In General.--Sections 55304 and 55305 of this title do not 
apply''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following:
    ``(b) Additional Exempted Activities.--In addition to the exemption 
under subsection (a) and notwithstanding any other provision of law, 
sections 55304 and 55305 of this title do not apply to activities 
carried out under title II of the Food for Peace Act (7 U.S.C. 1721 et 
seq.).''.
    (b) Conforming Amendment.--Section 55314(b)(1) of title 46, United 
States Code, is amended by inserting ``, except for activities carried 
out under title II of that Act'' before the semicolon.
                                 <all>
