
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 575 Introduced in House (IH)]

113th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                H. R. 575

To express the sense of the Congress that the United States should not 
    adopt any treaty that poses a threat to national sovereignty or 
abridges any rights guaranteed by the United States Constitution, such 
 as the right to keep and bear arms, and to withhold funding from the 
 United Nations unless the President certifies that the United Nations 
  has not taken action to restrict, attempt to restrict, or otherwise 
adversely infringe upon the rights of individuals in the United States 
  to keep and bear arms, or abridge any of the other constitutionally 
           protected rights of citizens of the United States.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                            February 6, 2013

 Mr. Stockman introduced the following bill; which was referred to the 
                      Committee on Foreign Affairs

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
To express the sense of the Congress that the United States should not 
    adopt any treaty that poses a threat to national sovereignty or 
abridges any rights guaranteed by the United States Constitution, such 
 as the right to keep and bear arms, and to withhold funding from the 
 United Nations unless the President certifies that the United Nations 
  has not taken action to restrict, attempt to restrict, or otherwise 
adversely infringe upon the rights of individuals in the United States 
  to keep and bear arms, or abridge any of the other constitutionally 
           protected rights of citizens of the United States.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Second Amendment Protection Act of 
2013''.

SEC. 2. SENSE OF THE CONGRESS.

    (a) Findings.--The Congress finds that--
            (1) it is the constitutional power of Congress to determine 
        United States foreign policy through the ratification of 
        international treaties and adoption of laws;
            (2) by prematurely signing treaties and executive 
        agreements, Presidents of the United States have opened the 
        door for international organizations to unilaterally regulate 
        the lives of citizens of the United States;
            (3) these international agreements, laws, and regulations 
        are being applied domestically in the United States through the 
        Supremacy Clause, which states, ``This Constitution, and the 
        Laws of the United States which shall be made in Pursuance 
        thereof; and all Treaties made, or which shall be made, under 
        the Authority of the United States, shall be the supreme Law of 
        the Land; and the Judges in every State shall be bound thereby, 
        any Thing in the Constitution or Laws of any State to the 
        contrary notwithstanding'';
            (4) the Supremacy Clause is useful to supersede conflicting 
        Federal and State laws;
            (5) international and transnational organizations force 
        their rules on people of the United States through conventions, 
        multilateral agreements, and nonratified treaties, such as 
        agreements that affect the private ownership of firearms by 
        law-abiding citizens; and
            (6) United States sovereignty is risked by domestic legal 
        applicability of international treaties and executive 
        agreements that have not been voted on and congressionally 
        adopted through formal processes which pose a threat to 
        national sovereignty and the liberty of the people of the 
        United States, including fundamental rights guaranteed under 
        the United States Constitution, such as the right to keep and 
        bear arms.
    (b) Sense of the Congress.--That it is the sense of the Congress 
that the United States should not adopt any treaty that poses a threat 
to national sovereignty or abridges the rights guaranteed by the United 
States Constitution, such as the right to keep and bear arms, and 
should cease the provision of financial support to any entity that does 
so.

SEC. 3. CONDITIONAL PROHIBITION ON UNITED NATIONS FUNDING.

    (a) In General.--Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the 
United States may not provide any funding to the United Nations for a 
fiscal year unless, before the last day of the preceding fiscal year, 
the President makes the certification described in subsection (b).
    (b) Certification.--The certification described in this subsection 
is a certification submitted to the Congress by the President, that 
states that the United Nations has not taken action to restrict, 
attempt to restrict, or otherwise adversely infringe on the rights of 
individuals in the United States to possess a firearm or ammunition, 
including by imposing burdens on international commerce, or abridge any 
of the other constitutionally protected rights of citizens of the 
United States.
                                 <all>
