
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[S. 230 Reported in Senate (RS)]

                                                        Calendar No. 52
113th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                 S. 230

                          [Report No. 113-21]

 To authorize the Peace Corps Commemorative Foundation to establish a 
 commemorative work in the District of Columbia and its environs, and 
                          for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                            February 7, 2013

 Mr. Portman (for himself, Mr. Udall of Colorado, Mr. Johnson of South 
 Dakota, Mr. Begich, and Mrs. Shaheen) introduced the following bill; 
   which was read twice and referred to the Committee on Energy and 
                           Natural Resources

                             April 22, 2013

                Reported by Mr. Wyden, without amendment

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
 To authorize the Peace Corps Commemorative Foundation to establish a 
 commemorative work in the District of Columbia and its environs, and 
                          for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. MEMORIAL TO COMMEMORATE AMERICA'S COMMITMENT TO 
              INTERNATIONAL SERVICE AND GLOBAL PROSPERITY.

    (a) Authorization To Establish Commemorative Work.--The Peace Corps 
Commemorative Foundation may establish a commemorative work on Federal 
land in the District of Columbia and its environs to commemorate the 
mission of the Peace Corps and the ideals on which the Peace Corps was 
founded.
    (b) Compliance With Standards for Commemorative Works Act.--The 
establishment of the commemorative work under this section shall be in 
accordance with chapter 89 of title 40, United States Code (commonly 
known as the ``Commemorative Works Act'').
    (c) Use of Federal Funds Prohibited.--
            (1) In general.--Federal funds may not be used to pay any 
        expense of the establishment of the commemorative work under 
        this section.
            (2) Responsibility of peace corps.--The Peace Corps 
        Commemorative Foundation shall be solely responsible for 
        acceptance of contributions for, and payment of the expenses 
        of, the establishment of the commemorative work under this 
        section.
    (d) Deposit of Excess Funds.--If, on payment of all expenses for 
the establishment of the commemorative work under this section 
(including the maintenance and preservation amount required by section 
8906(b)(1) of title 40, United States Code), or on expiration of the 
authority for the commemorative work under section 8903(e) of title 40, 
United States Code, there remains a balance of funds received for the 
establishment of the commemorative work, the Peace Corps Commemorative 
Foundation shall transmit the amount of the balance to the Secretary of 
the Interior for deposit in the account provided for in section 
8906(b)(3) of title 40, United States Code.

SEC. 2. BUDGETARY EFFECTS.

    The budgetary effects of this Act, for the purpose of complying 
with the Statutory Pay-As-You-Go Act of 2010, shall be determined by 
reference to the latest statement titled ``Budgetary Effects of PAYGO 
Legislation'' for this Act, submitted for printing in the Congressional 
Record by the Chairman of the Senate Budget Committee, provided that 
such statement has been submitted prior to the vote on passage.
                                                        Calendar No. 52

113th CONGRESS

  1st Session

                                 S. 230

                          [Report No. 113-21]

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL

 To authorize the Peace Corps Commemorative Foundation to establish a 
 commemorative work in the District of Columbia and its environs, and 
                          for other purposes.

_______________________________________________________________________

                             April 22, 2013

                       Reported without amendment
