
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 3300 Introduced in House (IH)]

113th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                H. R. 3300

  To reauthorize the programs and activities of the Federal Emergency 
                           Management Agency.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                            October 22, 2013

 Mr. Shuster (for himself, Mr. Rahall, Mr. Barletta, and Mr. Carson of 
   Indiana) introduced the following bill; which was referred to the 
             Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
  To reauthorize the programs and activities of the Federal Emergency 
                           Management Agency.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``FEMA Reauthorization Act of 2013''.

TITLE I--REAUTHORIZATION OF FEMA AND MODERNIZATION OF INTEGRATED PUBLIC 
                        ALERT AND WARNING SYSTEM

SEC. 101. REAUTHORIZATION OF FEDERAL EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AGENCY.

    Section 699 of Public Law 109-295 (6 U.S.C. 811) is amended--
            (1) by striking ``administration and operations'' each 
        place it appears and inserting ``management and 
        administration'';
            (2) in paragraph (2) by striking ``and'';
            (3) in paragraph (3) by striking the period and inserting 
        ``; and''; and
            (4) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(4) for fiscal year 2014, $972,145,000;
            ``(5) for fiscal year 2015, $972,145,000; and
            ``(6) for fiscal year 2016, $972,145,000.''.

SEC. 102. INTEGRATED PUBLIC ALERT AND WARNING SYSTEM MODERNIZATION.

    (a) Short Title.--This section may be cited as the ``Integrated 
Public Alert and Warning System Modernization Act of 2013''.
    (b) Integrated Public Alert and Warning System Modernization.--
            (1) In general.--To provide timely and effective disaster 
        warnings under this section, the President, acting through the 
        Administrator of the Federal Emergency Management Agency, 
        shall--
                    (A) modernize the integrated public alert and 
                warning system of the United States (in this section 
                referred to as the ``public alert and warning system'') 
                to ensure that the President under all conditions is 
                able to alert and warn governmental authorities and the 
                civilian population in areas endangered by disasters; 
                and
                    (B) implement the public alert and warning system.
            (2) Implementation requirements.--In carrying out paragraph 
        (1), the Administrator shall, consistent with the 
        recommendations in the final report of the Integrated Public 
        Alert and Warning System Advisory Committee (established under 
        subsection (c))--
                    (A) establish or adopt, as appropriate, common 
                alerting and warning protocols, standards, terminology, 
                and operating procedures for the public alert and 
                warning system;
                    (B) include in the public alert and warning system 
                the capability to adapt the distribution and content of 
                communications on the basis of geographic location, 
                risks, or personal user preferences, as appropriate;
                    (C) include in the public alert and warning system 
                the capability to alert and warn, and provide the 
                equivalent amount of information to individuals with 
                disabilities and individuals with access and functional 
                needs;
                    (D) ensure that training, tests, and exercises are 
                conducted for the public alert and warning system and 
                that the system is incorporated into other training and 
                exercise programs of the Department of Homeland 
                Security, as appropriate;
                    (E) establish and integrate into the National 
                Incident Management System a comprehensive and periodic 
                training program to instruct and educate Federal, 
                State, tribal, and local government officials in the 
                use of the Common Alerting Protocol enabled Emergency 
                Alert System;
                    (F) conduct, at least once every 3 years, periodic 
                nationwide tests of the public alert and warning 
                system; and
                    (G) ensure that the public alert and warning system 
                is resilient, secure, and can withstand acts of 
                terrorism and other external attacks.
            (3) System requirements.--The public alert and warning 
        system shall--
                    (A) incorporate multiple communications 
                technologies;
                    (B) be designed to adapt to, and incorporate, 
                future technologies for communicating directly with the 
                public;
                    (C) to the extent technically feasible, be designed 
                to provide alerts to the largest portion of the 
                affected population, including nonresident visitors and 
                tourists and individuals with disabilities and access 
                and functional needs, and improve the ability of remote 
                areas to receive alerts;
                    (D) promote local and regional public and private 
                partnerships to enhance community preparedness and 
                response;
                    (E) provide redundant alert mechanisms if 
                practicable so as to reach the greatest number of 
                people regardless of whether they have access to, or 
                utilize, any specific medium of communication or any 
                particular device; and
                    (F) include a mechanism to ensure the protection of 
                individual privacy.
            (4) Implementation plan.--Not later than 180 days after the 
        date of submission of the report of the Integrated Public Alert 
        and Warning System Advisory Committee, the Administrator shall 
        submit to the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure 
        and the Committee on Homeland Security of the House of 
        Representatives and the Committee on Homeland Security and 
        Governmental Affairs of the Senate a detailed plan to implement 
        the public alert and warning system. The plan shall include a 
        timeline for implementation, a spending plan, and 
        recommendations for any additional authority that may be 
        necessary to fully implement this subsection.
            (5) Maximum funds.--The Administrator may use not more than 
        $12,733,000 of the amount made available pursuant to section 
        699 of the Post-Katrina Emergency Management Reform Act of 2006 
        (6 U.S.C. 811) for each of fiscal years 2014, 2015, and 2016 to 
        carry out the provisions of this section.
    (c) Integrated Public Alert and Warning System Advisory 
Committee.--
            (1) Establishment.--Not later than 90 days after the date 
        of enactment of this Act, the Administrator of the Federal 
        Emergency Management Agency shall establish an advisory 
        committee to be known as the Integrated Public Alert and 
        Warning System Advisory Committee (in this subsection referred 
        to as the ``Advisory Committee'').
            (2) Membership.--The Advisory Committee shall be composed 
        of the following members (or their designees) to be appointed 
        by the Administrator as soon as practicable after the date of 
        enactment of this Act:
                    (A) The Chairman of the Federal Communications 
                Commission.
                    (B) The Administrator of the National Oceanic and 
                Atmospheric Administration of the Department of 
                Commerce.
                    (C) The Assistant Secretary for Communications and 
                Information of the Department of Commerce.
                    (D) Representatives of State and local governments, 
                representatives of emergency management agencies, and 
                representatives of emergency response providers, 
                selected from among individuals nominated by national 
                organizations representing governments and personnel.
                    (E) Representatives from federally recognized 
                Indian tribes and national Indian organizations.
                    (F) Individuals who have the requisite technical 
                knowledge and expertise to serve on the Advisory 
                Committee, including representatives of--
                            (i) communications service providers;
                            (ii) vendors, developers, and manufacturers 
                        of systems, facilities, equipment, and 
                        capabilities for the provision of 
                        communications services;
                            (iii) third-party service bureaus;
                            (iv) the broadcasting industry, including 
                        commercial and noncommercial radio and 
                        television stations;
                            (v) the cellular industry;
                            (vi) the cable industry;
                            (vii) the satellite industry; and
                            (viii) national organizations representing 
                        individuals with disabilities and access and 
                        functional needs and national organizations 
                        representing the elderly.
                    (G) Qualified representatives of such other 
                stakeholders and interested and affected parties as the 
                Administrator considers appropriate.
            (3) Chairperson.--The Administrator shall serve as the 
        Chairperson of the Advisory Committee.
            (4) Meetings.--
                    (A) Initial meeting.--The initial meeting of the 
                Advisory Committee shall take place not later than 120 
                days after the date of enactment of this Act.
                    (B) Other meetings.--After the initial meeting, the 
                Advisory Committee shall meet at the call of the 
                Chairperson.
                    (C) Notice; open meetings.--Meetings held by the 
                Advisory Committee shall be duly noticed at least 14 
                days in advance and shall be open to the public.
                    (D) Interested persons.--Interested persons shall 
                be permitted to attend, appear before, or file 
                statements with the Advisory Committee, in accordance 
                with subsection (c) of section 552b of title 5, United 
                States Code.
                    (E) Meeting minutes.--The Advisory Committee shall 
                keep detailed minutes of each meeting, which shall 
                contain a record of the persons present, a complete and 
                accurate description of matters discussed and 
                conclusions reached, and copies of all reports 
                received, issued, or approved by the Advisory 
                Committee.
                    (F) Availability of information.--The records, 
                reports, transcripts, minutes, appendixes, working 
                papers, drafts, studies, agenda, or other documents 
                which were made available to or prepared for or by the 
                Advisory Committee shall be available for public 
                inspection and copying, subject to section 552 of title 
                5, United States Code, at a single location in the 
                office of FEMA until the Advisory Committee ceases to 
                exist.
            (5) Rules.--
                    (A) Quorum.--One-third of the members of the 
                Advisory Committee shall constitute a quorum for 
                conducting business of the Advisory Committee.
                    (B) Subcommittees.--To assist the Advisory 
                Committee in carrying out its functions, the 
                Chairperson may establish appropriate subcommittees 
                composed of members of the Advisory Committee and other 
                subject matter experts as the Chairperson considers 
                necessary.
                    (C) Additional rules.--The Advisory Committee may 
                adopt such other rules as are necessary to carry out 
                its duties.
            (6) Consultation with nonmembers.--The Advisory Committee 
        and the program offices for the integrated public alert and 
        warning system for the United States shall regularly meet with 
        groups that are not represented on the Advisory Committee to 
        consider new and developing technologies that may be beneficial 
        to the public alert and warning system. Such groups may 
        include--
                    (A) the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency;
                    (B) entities engaged in federally funded research; 
                and
                    (C) academic institutions engaged in relevant work 
                and research.
            (7) Recommendations.--The Advisory Committee shall develop 
        recommendations for an integrated public alert and warning 
        system, including--
                    (A) recommendations for common alerting and warning 
                protocols, standards, terminology, and operating 
                procedures for the public alert and warning system; and
                    (B) recommendations to provide for a public alert 
                and warning system that--
                            (i) has the capability to adapt the 
                        distribution and content of communications on 
                        the basis of geographic location, risks, or 
                        personal user preferences, as appropriate;
                            (ii) has the capability to alert and warn 
                        individuals with disabilities and individuals 
                        with limited English proficiency;
                            (iii) incorporates multiple communications 
                        technologies;
                            (iv) is designed to adapt to, and 
                        incorporate, future technologies for 
                        communicating directly with the public;
                            (v) is designed to provide alerts to the 
                        largest portion of the affected population 
                        feasible, including nonresident visitors and 
                        tourists, and improve the ability of remote 
                        areas to receive alerts;
                            (vi) promotes local and regional public and 
                        private partnerships to enhance community 
                        preparedness and response; and
                            (vii) provides redundant alert mechanisms 
                        if practicable in order to reach the greatest 
                        number of people regardless of whether they 
                        have access to, or utilize, any specific medium 
                        of communication or any particular device.
            (8) Initial and annual report.--Not later than 1 year after 
        the date of enactment of this Act, the Advisory Committee shall 
        submit to the Administrator, the Committee on Transportation 
        and Infrastructure and the Committee on Homeland Security of 
        the House of Representatives, and the Committee on Homeland 
        Security and Governmental Affairs of the Senate a report 
        containing the recommendations of the Advisory Committee.
            (9) Federal advisory committee act.--Neither the Federal 
        Advisory Committee Act (5 U.S.C. App.) nor any rule, order, or 
        regulation promulgated under that Act shall apply to the 
        Advisory Committee.
            (10) Termination.--The Advisory Committee shall terminate 
        not later than 3 years after the date of enactment of this Act.
    (d) Limitation on Statutory Construction.--Nothing in this section 
shall be construed to authorize or require FEMA or any other government 
entity to require any action on the part of the Federal Communications 
Commission, the Department of Commerce, the Office of Emergency 
Communications, or any other nongovernment entity nor impact any 
existing obligations of these entities.

               TITLE II--STAFFORD ACT AND OTHER PROGRAMS

SEC. 201. REAUTHORIZATION OF URBAN SEARCH AND RESCUE RESPONSE SYSTEM.

    (a) In General.--Title III of the Robert T. Stafford Disaster 
Relief and Emergency Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5141 et seq.) is amended 
by adding at the end the following:

``SEC. 327. NATIONAL URBAN SEARCH AND RESCUE RESPONSE SYSTEM.

    ``(a) Definitions.--In this section, the following definitions 
apply:
            ``(1) Administrator.--The term `Administrator' means the 
        Administrator of the Federal Emergency Management Agency.
            ``(2) Agency.--The term `Agency' means the Federal 
        Emergency Management Agency.
            ``(3) Hazard.--The term `hazard' has the meaning given that 
        term by section 602.
            ``(4) Nonemployee system member.--The term `nonemployee 
        System member' means a System member not employed by a 
        sponsoring agency or participating agency.
            ``(5) Participating agency.--The term `participating 
        agency' means a State or local government, nonprofit 
        organization, or private organization that has executed an 
        agreement with a sponsoring agency to participate in the 
        System.
            ``(6) Sponsoring agency.--The term `sponsoring agency' 
        means a State or local government that is the sponsor of a task 
        force designated by the Administrator to participate in the 
        System.
            ``(7) System.--The term `System' means the National Urban 
        Search and Rescue Response System to be administered under this 
        section.
            ``(8) System member.--The term `System member' means an 
        individual who is not a full-time employee of the Federal 
        Government and who serves on a task force or on a System 
        management or other technical team.
            ``(9) Task force.--The term `task force' means an urban 
        search and rescue team designated by the Administrator to 
        participate in the System.
    ``(b) General Authority.--Subject to the requirements of this 
section, the Administrator shall continue to administer the emergency 
response system known as the National Urban Search and Rescue Response 
System.
    ``(c) Functions.--In administering the System, the Administrator 
shall provide for a national network of standardized search and rescue 
resources to assist States and local governments in responding to 
hazards.
    ``(d) Task Forces.--
            ``(1) Designation.--The Administrator shall designate task 
        forces to participate in the System. The Administrator shall 
        determine the criteria for such participation.
            ``(2) Sponsoring agencies.--Each task force shall have a 
        sponsoring agency. The Administrator shall enter into an 
        agreement with the sponsoring agency with respect to the 
        participation of each task force in the System.
            ``(3) Composition.--
                    ``(A) Participating agencies.--A task force may 
                include, at the discretion of the sponsoring agency, 
                one or more participating agencies. The sponsoring 
                agency shall enter into an agreement with each 
                participating agency with respect to the participation 
                of the participating agency on the task force.
                    ``(B) Other individuals.--A task force may also 
                include, at the discretion of the sponsoring agency, 
                other individuals not otherwise associated with the 
                sponsoring agency or a participating agency. The 
                sponsoring agency of a task force may enter into a 
                separate agreement with each such individual with 
                respect to the participation of the individual on the 
                task force.
    ``(e) Management and Technical Teams.--The Administrator shall 
maintain such management teams and other technical teams as the 
Administrator determines are necessary to administer the System.
    ``(f) Appointment of System Members Into Federal Service.--
            ``(1) In general.--The Administrator may appoint a System 
        member into Federal service for a period of service to provide 
        for the participation of the System member in exercises, 
        preincident staging, major disaster and emergency response 
        activities, and training events sponsored or sanctioned by the 
        Administrator.
            ``(2) Nonapplicability of certain civil service laws.--The 
        Administrator may make appointments under paragraph (1) without 
        regard to the provisions of title 5, United States Code, 
        governing appointments in the competitive service.
            ``(3) Relationship to other authorities.--The authority of 
        the Administrator to make appointments under this subsection 
        shall not affect any other authority of the Administrator under 
        this Act.
            ``(4) Limitation.--A System member who is appointed into 
        Federal service under paragraph (1) shall not be considered an 
        employee of the United States for purposes other than those 
        specifically set forth in this section.
    ``(g) Compensation.--
            ``(1) Pay of system members.--Subject to such terms and 
        conditions as the Administrator may impose by regulation, the 
        Administrator shall make payments to the sponsoring agency of a 
        task force--
                    ``(A) to reimburse each employer of a System member 
                on the task force for compensation paid by the employer 
                to the System member for any period during which the 
                System member is appointed into Federal service under 
                subsection (f)(1); and
                    ``(B) to make payments directly to a nonemployee 
                System member on the task force for any period during 
                which the non-employee System member is appointed into 
                Federal service under subsection (f)(1).
            ``(2) Reimbursement for employees filling positions of 
        system members.--
                    ``(A) In general.--Subject to such terms and 
                conditions as the Administrator may impose by 
                regulation, the Administrator shall make payments to 
                the sponsoring agency of a task force to reimburse each 
                employer of a System member on the task force for 
                compensation paid by the employer to an employee 
                filling a position normally filled by the System member 
                for any period during which the System member is 
                appointed into Federal service under subsection (f)(1).
                    ``(B) Limitation.--Costs incurred by an employer 
                shall be eligible for reimbursement under subparagraph 
                (A) only to the extent that the costs are in excess of 
                the costs that would have been incurred by the employer 
                had the System member not been appointed into Federal 
                service under subsection (f)(1).
            ``(3) Method of payment.--A System member shall not be 
        entitled to pay directly from the Agency for a period during 
        which the System member is appointed into Federal service under 
        subsection (f)(1).
    ``(h) Personal Injury, Illness, Disability, or Death.--
            ``(1) In general.--A System member who is appointed into 
        Federal service under subsection (f)(1) and who suffers 
        personal injury, illness, disability, or death as a result of a 
        personal injury sustained while acting in the scope of such 
        appointment shall, for the purposes of subchapter I of chapter 
        81 of title 5, United States Code, be treated as though the 
        member were an employee (as defined by section 8101 of that 
        title) who had sustained the injury in the performance of duty.
            ``(2) Election of benefits.--
                    ``(A) In general.--If a System member (or, in the 
                case of the death of the System member, the System 
                member's dependent) is entitled--
                            ``(i) under paragraph (1) to receive 
                        benefits under subchapter I of chapter 81 of 
                        title 5, United States Code, by reason of 
                        personal injury, illness, disability, or death, 
                        and
                            ``(ii) to receive benefits from a State or 
                        local government by reason of the same personal 
                        injury, illness, disability, or death,
                the System member or dependent shall elect to receive 
                either the benefits referred to in clause (i) or (ii).
                    ``(B) Deadline.--A System member or dependent shall 
                make an election of benefits under subparagraph (A) not 
                later than 1 year after the date of the personal 
                injury, illness, disability, or death that is the 
                reason for the benefits or until such later date as the 
                Secretary of Labor may allow for reasonable cause 
                shown.
                    ``(C) Effect of election.--An election of benefits 
                made under this paragraph is irrevocable unless 
                otherwise provided by law.
            ``(3) Reimbursement for state or local benefits.--Subject 
        to such terms and conditions as the Administrator may impose by 
        regulation, in the event that a System member or dependent 
        elects benefits from a State or local government under 
        paragraph (2)(A), the Administrator shall reimburse the State 
        or local government for the value of those benefits.
    ``(i) Liability.--A System member appointed into Federal service 
under subsection (f)(1), while acting within the scope of the 
appointment, is deemed an employee of the Federal Government under 
section 1346(b) of title 28, United States Code, and chapter 171 of 
that title, relating to tort claims procedure.
    ``(j) Employment and Reemployment Rights.--With respect to a System 
member who is not a regular full-time employee of a sponsoring agency 
or participating agency, the following terms and conditions apply:
            ``(1) Service.--Service as a System member is deemed 
        `service in the uniformed services' for purposes of chapter 43 
        of title 38, United States Code, relating to employment and 
        reemployment rights of individuals who have performed service 
        in the uniformed services (regardless of whether the individual 
        receives compensation for such participation). All rights and 
        obligations of such persons and procedures for assistance, 
        enforcement, and investigation shall be as provided for in such 
        chapter.
            ``(2) Preclusion.--Preclusion of giving notice of service 
        by necessity of appointment under this section is deemed 
        preclusion by `military necessity' for purposes of section 
        4312(b) of title 38, United States Code, pertaining to giving 
        notice of absence from a position of employment. A 
        determination of such necessity shall be made by the 
        Administrator and shall not be subject to judicial review.
    ``(k) Licenses and Permits.--If a System member holds a valid 
license, certificate, or other permit issued by any State or other 
governmental jurisdiction evidencing the member's qualifications in any 
professional, mechanical, or other skill or type of assistance required 
by the System, the System member is deemed to be performing a Federal 
activity when rendering aid involving such skill or assistance during a 
period of appointment into Federal service under subsection (f)(1).
    ``(l) Advisory Committee.--
            ``(1) In general.--The Administrator shall establish and 
        maintain an advisory committee to provide expert 
        recommendations to the Administrator in order to assist the 
        Administrator in administering the System.
            ``(2) Composition.--The advisory committee shall be 
        composed of members from geographically diverse areas, and 
        shall include--
                    ``(A) the chief officer or senior executive from at 
                least three sponsoring agencies;
                    ``(B) the senior emergency manager from at least 
                two States that include sponsoring agencies; and
                    ``(C) at least one representative recommended by 
                the leaders of the task forces.
            ``(3) Inapplicability of termination requirement.--Section 
        14(a)(2) of the Federal Advisory Committee Act (5 U.S.C. App.) 
        shall not apply to the advisory committee under this 
        subsection.
    ``(m) Preparedness Cooperative Agreements.--
            ``(1) In general.--Subject to the availability of 
        appropriations for such purpose, the Administrator shall enter 
        into an annual preparedness cooperative agreement with each 
        sponsoring agency. Amounts made available to a sponsoring 
        agency under such a preparedness cooperative agreement shall be 
        for the following purposes:
                    ``(A) Training and exercises, including training 
                and exercises with other Federal, State, and local 
                government response entities.
                    ``(B) Acquisition and maintenance of equipment, 
                including interoperable communications and personal 
                protective equipment.
                    ``(C) Medical monitoring required for responder 
                safety and health in anticipation of and following a 
                major disaster, emergency, or other hazard, as 
                determined by the Administrator.
            ``(2) Availability of appropriations.--Notwithstanding 
        section 1552(b) of title 31, United States Code, amounts made 
        available for cooperative agreements under this subsection that 
        are not expended shall be deposited in an agency account and 
        shall remain available for such agreements without fiscal year 
        limitation.
    ``(n) Response Cooperative Agreements.--The Administrator shall 
enter into a response cooperative agreement with each sponsoring 
agency, as appropriate, under which the Administrator agrees to 
reimburse the sponsoring agency for costs incurred by the sponsoring 
agency in responding to a major disaster or emergency.
    ``(o) Obligations.--The Administrator may incur all necessary 
obligations consistent with this section in order to ensure the 
effectiveness of the System.
    ``(p) Authorization of Appropriations.--
            ``(1) In general.--There is authorized to be appropriated 
        to carry out the System and the provisions of this section 
        $35,180,000 for each of fiscal years 2014, 2015, and 2016.
            ``(2) Administrative expenses.--The Administrator may use 
        not to exceed 6 percent of the funds appropriated for a fiscal 
        year pursuant to paragraph (1) for salaries, expenses, and 
        other administrative costs incurred by the Administrator in 
        carrying out this section.''.
    (b) Conforming Amendments.--
            (1) Applicability of title 5, united states code.--Section 
        8101(1) of title 5, United States Code, is amended--
                    (A) in subparagraph (D) by striking ``and'' at the 
                end;
                    (B) by moving subparagraph (F) to appear after 
                subparagraph (E);
                    (C) in subparagraph (F)--
                            (i) by striking ``United States Code,''; 
                        and
                            (ii) by adding ``and'' at the end; and
                    (D) by inserting after subparagraph (F) the 
                following:
                    ``(G) an individual who is a System member of the 
                National Urban Search and Rescue Response System during 
                a period of appointment into Federal service pursuant 
                to section 327 of the Robert T. Stafford Disaster 
                Relief and Emergency Assistance Act;''.
            (2) Inclusion as part of uniformed services for purposes of 
        userra.--Section 4303 of title 38, United States Code, is 
        amended--
                    (A) in paragraph (13) by inserting ``, a period for 
                which a System member of the National Urban Search and 
                Rescue Response System is absent from a position of 
                employment due to an appointment into Federal service 
                under section 327 of the Robert T. Stafford Disaster 
                Relief and Emergency Assistance Act'' before ``, and a 
                period''; and
                    (B) in paragraph (16) by inserting after ``Public 
                Health Service,'' the following: ``System members of 
                the National Urban Search and Rescue Response System 
                during a period of appointment into Federal service 
                under section 327 of the Robert T. Stafford Disaster 
                Relief and Emergency Assistance Act,''.

SEC. 202. REAUTHORIZATION OF EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT ASSISTANCE COMPACT 
              GRANTS.

    (a) In General.--Subtitle A of title VI of the Robert T. Stafford 
Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5196 et seq.) 
is amended by adding at the end the following:

``SEC. 617. EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT ASSISTANCE COMPACT GRANTS.

    ``(a) In General.--The Administrator of the Federal Emergency 
Management Agency may make grants to provide for implementation of the 
Emergency Management Assistance Compact consented to by Congress in the 
joint resolution entitled `Joint resolution granting the consent of 
Congress to the Emergency Management Assistance Compact' (Public Law 
104-321; 110 Stat. 3877).
    ``(b) Eligible Grant Recipients.--States and the Administrator of 
the Emergency Management Assistance Compact shall be eligible to 
receive grants under subsection (a).
    ``(c) Use of Funds.--A grant received under this section shall be 
used--
            ``(1) to carry out recommendations identified in the 
        Emergency Management Assistance Compact after-action reports 
        for the 2004 and 2005 hurricane seasons;
            ``(2) to administer compact operations on behalf of States, 
        as such term is defined in the compact, that have enacted the 
        compact;
            ``(3) to continue coordination with the Federal Emergency 
        Management Agency and appropriate Federal agencies;
            ``(4) to continue coordination with States and local 
        governments and their respective national organizations; and
            ``(5) to assist State and local governments, emergency 
        response providers, and organizations representing such 
        providers with credentialing the providers and the typing of 
        emergency response resources.
    ``(d) Coordination.--The Administrator of the Federal Emergency 
Management Agency shall consult with the Administrator of the Emergency 
Management Assistance Compact to ensure effective coordination of 
efforts in responding to requests for assistance.
    ``(e) Authorization of Appropriations.--There is authorized to be 
appropriated to carry out this section $2,000,000 for each of the 
fiscal years 2014, 2015, and 2016. Such sums shall remain available 
until expended.''.
    (b) Repeal.--Section 661 of the Post-Katrina Emergency Management 
Reform Act of 2006 (6 U.S.C. 761) is repealed.
                                 <all>
