
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 5627 Introduced in House (IH)]

113th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                H. R. 5627

To amend title 44, United States Code, to require the Public Printer to 
 adjust the fonts used in documents printed by the Government Printing 
Office if adjusting the fonts will reduce printing costs, and for other 
                               purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                           September 18, 2014

  Mr. Maffei (for himself, Mr. Sean Patrick Maloney of New York, Mr. 
Ruiz, Mr. Quigley, and Ms. Kaptur) introduced the following bill; which 
         was referred to the Committee on House Administration

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
To amend title 44, United States Code, to require the Public Printer to 
 adjust the fonts used in documents printed by the Government Printing 
Office if adjusting the fonts will reduce printing costs, and for other 
                               purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Printing Responsibly in New Typesets 
Act'' or the ``PRINT Act''.

SEC. 2. REQUIRING PUBLIC PRINTER TO ADJUST FONTS USED IN DOCUMENTS 
              PRINTED BY GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE TO ACHIEVE SAVINGS.

    (a) Adjusting Fonts.--
            (1) In general.--Chapter 5 of title 44, United States Code, 
        is amended by adding at the end the following new section:
``Sec. 518. Adjustment of fonts
    ``(a) Documents Printed by Government Printing Office.--The Public 
Printer shall adjust the font used to print the text of any type of 
document printed by the Government Printing Office if the Public 
Printer determines that adjusting the font will reduce printing costs 
and be cost-effective and appropriate with respect to that type of 
document.
    ``(b) Documents Printed by Others.--The Public Printer shall enter 
into such agreements as may be required to ensure that any person other 
than the Government Printing Office who prints documents for the 
Federal Government under the authority of this title or pursuant to 
agreements authorized by this title follows the requirements of 
subsection (a) with respect to those documents in the same manner as 
the Public Printer follows such requirements with respect to documents 
printed by the Government Printing Office.''.
            (2) Clerical amendment.--The table of sections of chapter 5 
        of such title is amended by adding at the end the following new 
        item:

``518. Adjustment of fonts.''.
    (b) Conforming Amendments.--
            (1) United states code.--(A) Section 205 of title 1, United 
        States Code, is amended by striking ``and shall be in such form 
        and style'' and inserting ``and (subject to section 518 of 
        title 44, United States Code) shall be in such form and 
        style''.
            (B) Section 206 of title 1, United States Code, is amended 
        by striking ``shall be printed in such form and style'' and 
        inserting ``shall (subject to section 518 of title 44, United 
        States Code) be printed in such form and style''.
            (2) Congressional printing.--Section 707 of title 44, 
        United States Code, is amended by striking ``Subject to 
        sections'' and inserting ``Subject to section 518 of this title 
        and sections''.
            (3) Congressional record.--Section 901 of title 44, United 
        States Code, is amended by striking ``The Joint Committee'' and 
        inserting ``Subject to section 518 of this title, the Joint 
        Committee''.
            (4) Executive and judiciary printing.--Section 1105 of 
        title 44, United States Code, is amended by striking ``The 
        Public Printer'' and inserting ``Subject to section 518 of this 
        title, the Public Printer''.
    (c) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this Act shall apply 
with respect to documents printed after the expiration of the 1-year 
period which begins on the date of the enactment of this Act.

SEC. 3. PROHIBITING DELIVERY OF PRINTED COPIES OF CONGRESSIONAL RECORD 
              TO OFFICES OF MEMBERS OF CONGRESS.

    (a) Prohibiting Delivery.--Section 906 of title 44, United States 
Code, is amended--
            (1) by striking ``The Public Printer'' and inserting ``(a) 
        In General.--Subject to subsection (c), the Public Printer'';
            (2) by striking ``Copies of the daily edition'' and 
        inserting ``(b) Timing of Delivery.--Copies of the daily 
        edition''; and
            (3) by adding at the end the following new subsection:
    ``(c) Prohibiting Delivery to Offices of Members of Congress.--The 
Public Printer may not deliver a printed copy of any version of the 
Congressional Record to the office of a Senator or the office of a 
Member of the House of Representatives (including a Delegate or 
Resident Commissioner to the Congress).''.
    (b) Effective Date.--The amendments made by subsection (a) shall 
take effect 30 days after the date of enactment of this Act.

SEC. 4. REDESIGNATION OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE AS GOVERNMENT 
              PUBLISHING OFFICE.

    (a) Redesignation.--The Government Printing Office is hereby 
redesignated as the Government Publishing Office.
    (b) References.--Any reference to the Government Printing Office in 
any law, rule, regulation, certificate, directive, instruction, or 
other official paper in force on the date of enactment of this Act 
shall be considered to refer and apply to the Government Publishing 
Office.
                                 <all>
