
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 383 Introduced in House (IH)]

113th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                H. R. 383

   To amend the War Powers Resolution to limit the use of funds for 
   introduction of the Armed Forces into hostilities, and for other 
                               purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                            January 23, 2013

    Mr. Gibson (for himself, Mr. Amash, Mr. Benishek, Mr. Brooks of 
  Alabama, Mr. Coffman, Mr. Duncan of Tennessee, Mr. Fitzpatrick, Mr. 
 Fortenberry, Ms. Foxx, Mr. Garamendi, Mr. Gosar, Mr. Johnson of Ohio, 
  Mr. Jordan, Mr. Labrador, Mr. Lankford, Mr. Miller of Florida, Mr. 
 Mulvaney, Mr. Nugent, Mr. Reed, Mr. Ribble, Mr. Rooney, Mr. Ross, Mr. 
  Austin Scott of Georgia, Mr. Shimkus, Mr. Smith of Washington, Mr. 
 Smith of New Jersey, and Mr. Stivers) introduced the following bill; 
which was referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs, and in addition 
 to the Committee on Rules, for a period to be subsequently determined 
 by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of such provisions as 
        fall within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
   To amend the War Powers Resolution to limit the use of funds for 
   introduction of the Armed Forces into hostilities, and for other 
                               purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``War Powers Reform Act''.

SEC. 2. PURPOSE AND POLICY.

    Section 2(c) of the War Powers Resolution (50 U.S.C. 1541(c)) is 
amended--
            (1) in the matter preceding paragraph (1), by striking 
        ``are exercised'' and inserting ``may be exercised''; and
            (2) in paragraph (3), by inserting after ``attack'' the 
        following: ``or imminent threat of attack''.

SEC. 3. CONSULTATION AND REPORTING.

    Section 3 of the War Powers Resolution (50 U.S.C. 1542) is 
amended--
            (1) in the heading, by inserting ``and reporting'' after 
        ``consultation'';
            (2) by striking ``The President'' and inserting the 
        following:
    ``(a) Consultation.--The President''; and
            (3) by adding at the end the following:
    ``(b) Reporting.--The President in every possible instance shall 
submit to Congress before introducing United States Armed Forces into 
hostilities or into situations where imminent involvement in 
hostilities is clearly indicated by the circumstances a report, in 
writing, setting forth the estimated scope and duration of the 
hostilities or involvement.''.

SEC. 4. REPORTING.

    Section 4(a) of the War Powers Resolution (50 U.S.C. 1543(a)) is 
amended by inserting ``or a specific statutory authorization'' after 
``a declaration of war''.

SEC. 5. LIMITATION ON USE OF FUNDS FOR INTRODUCTION OF ARMED FORCES 
              INTO HOSTILITIES.

    The War Powers Resolution (50 U.S.C. 1541 et seq.) is amended--
            (1) by striking sections 5, 6, and 7;
            (2) by redesignating sections 8, 9, and 10 as sections 6, 
        7, and 8, respectively; and
            (3) by inserting after section 4 the following:

                      ``limitation on use of funds

    ``Sec. 5.  (a) No funds available for the United States Armed 
Forces may be obligated or expended for introduction of the Armed 
Forces into hostilities, or into situations where imminent involvement 
in hostilities is clearly indicated by the circumstances, in the 
absence of a declaration of war, specific statutory authorization, or a 
national emergency created by an attack or imminent threat of attack 
upon the United States, its territories or possessions, or the Armed 
Forces.
    ``(b) It shall not be in order in the House of Representatives or 
the Senate to consider any bill or joint resolution that would make 
funds available in violation of subsection (a).''.
                                 <all>
