
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 1416 Introduced in House (IH)]

113th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                H. R. 1416

   To terminate application of sequestration to payment for certain 
   physician-administered drugs under part B of the Medicare program.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                             April 9, 2013

 Mrs. Ellmers introduced the following bill; which was referred to the 
Committee on the Budget, and in addition to the Committees on Ways and 
    Means and Energy and Commerce, for a period to be subsequently 
   determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of such 
 provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
   To terminate application of sequestration to payment for certain 
   physician-administered drugs under part B of the Medicare program.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Cancer Patient Protection Act of 
2013''.

SEC. 2. TERMINATION OF SEQUESTRATION TO PAYMENT FOR PHYSICIAN-
              ADMINISTERED DRUGS UNDER PART B OF THE MEDICARE PROGRAM.

    (a) In General.--Notwithstanding the presidential order issued on 
March 1, 2013, under section 251A of the Balanced Budget and Emergency 
Deficit Control Act of 1985 (2 U.S.C. 901a), the budgetary resources 
sequestered under that order for payments for drugs and biologicals 
under section 1847A of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1395w-4) 
shall be available for obligation for drugs and biologicals furnished 
on or after the date of the enactment of this Act in the same amount 
and manner as if such order had not been issued.
    (b) Restoration of Reduced Payments.--Notwithstanding such 
presidential order and such section 251A, the Secretary of Health and 
Human Services shall make such payments under part B of title XVIII of 
the Social Security Act as may be required to reimburse for the 
reductions in the payments made under such order for drugs and 
biologicals described in subsection (a) and furnished on or after April 
1, 2013, and before the date of the enactment of this Act.
    (c) Construction.--Nothing in this section shall be construed as 
affecting any other payments under title XVIII of the Social Security 
Act or any other Act (other than under this section) or as requiring or 
authorizing the reduction of other payments, under such title or 
otherwise, by virtue of the application of this section.
                                 <all>
