
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H. Res. 140 Engrossed in House (EH)]

H. Res. 140

                In the House of Representatives, U. S.,

                                                        April 10, 2013.
    Resolved, That at any time after the adoption of this resolution the Speaker 
may, pursuant to clause 2(b) of rule XVIII, declare the House resolved into the 
Committee of the Whole House on the State of the Union for consideration of the 
bill (H.R. 678) to authorize all Bureau of Reclamation conduit facilities for 
hydropower development under Federal Reclamation law, and for other purposes. 
The first reading of the bill shall be dispensed with. All points of order 
against consideration of the bill are waived. General debate shall be confined 
to the bill and shall not exceed one hour equally divided and controlled by the 
chair and ranking minority member of the Committee on Natural Resources. After 
general debate the bill shall be considered for amendment under the five-minute 
rule. The bill shall be considered as read. All points of order against 
provisions in the bill are waived. No amendment to the bill shall be in order 
except: (1) those received for printing in the portion of the Congressional 
Record designated for that purpose in clause 8 of rule XVIII dated at least one 
day before the day of consideration of the amendment; and (2) pro forma 
amendments for the purpose of debate. Each amendment so received may be offered 
only by the Member who caused it to be printed or a designee and shall be 
considered as read if printed. At the conclusion of consideration of the bill 
for amendment the Committee shall rise and report the bill to the House with 
such amendments as may have been adopted. The previous question shall be 
considered as ordered on the bill and amendments thereto to final passage 
without intervening motion except one motion to recommit with or without 
instructions.
            Attest:

                                                                          Clerk.
