
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H. Res. 438 Engrossed in House (EH)]

H. Res. 438

                In the House of Representatives, U. S.,

                                                     December 12, 2013.
    Resolved, That upon adoption of this resolution it shall be in order to take 
from the Speaker's table the joint resolution (H.J. Res. 59) making continuing 
appropriations for fiscal year 2014, and for other purposes, with the House 
amendment to the Senate amendment thereto, and to consider in the House, without 
intervention of any point of order, a motion offered by the chair of the 
Committee on the Budget or his designee that the House recede from its amendment 
and concur in the Senate amendment with the amendment printed in part A of the 
report of the Committee on Rules accompanying this resolution modified by the 
amendment printed in part B of that report. The Senate amendment and the motion 
shall be considered as read. The motion shall be debatable for 70 minutes, with 
60 minutes equally divided and controlled by the chair and ranking minority 
member of the Committee on the Budget and 10 minutes equally divided and 
controlled by the chair and ranking minority member of the Committee on Energy 
and Commerce. The previous question shall be considered as ordered on the motion 
to its adoption without intervening motion or demand for division of the 
question.
    Sec. 2.  The chair of the Committee on the Budget may insert in the 
Congressional Record at any time during the remainder of the first session of 
the 113th Congress such material as he may deem explanatory of the motion 
specified in the first section of this resolution.
    Sec. 3.  In the engrossment of the House amendment to the Senate amendment 
to House Joint Resolution 59, the Clerk may conform division, title, and section 
numbers and conform cross-references and provisions for short titles.
    Sec. 4.  The chair of the Committee on Armed Services may insert in the 
Congressional Record at any time during the remainder of the first session of 
the 113th Congress such material as he may deem explanatory of defense 
authorization measures for the fiscal year 2014.
    Sec. 5.  It shall be in order at any time on the legislative day of December 
12, 2013, or December 13, 2013, for the Speaker to entertain motions that the 
House suspend the rules as though under clause 1 of rule XV. The Speaker or his 
designee shall consult with the Minority Leader or her designee on the 
designation of any matter for consideration pursuant to this section.
    Sec. 6.  On any legislative day of the first session of the One Hundred 
Thirteenth Congress after December 13, 2013--
     (a) the Journal of the proceedings of the previous day shall be considered 
as approved; and
    (b) the Chair may at any time declare the House adjourned to meet at a date 
and time, within the limits of clause 4, section 5, article I of the 
Constitution, to be announced by the Chair in declaring the adjournment.
    Sec. 7.  On any legislative day of the second session of the One Hundred 
Thirteenth Congress before January 7, 2014--
     (a) the Speaker may dispense with organizational and legislative business;
    (b) the Journal of the proceedings of the previous day shall be considered 
as approved if applicable; and
    (c) the Chair at any time may declare the House adjourned to meet at a date 
and time, within the limits of clause 4, section 5, article I of the 
Constitution, to be announced by the Chair in declaring the adjournment.
    Sec. 8.  The Speaker may appoint Members to perform the duties of the Chair 
for the duration of the period addressed by sections 6 and 7 as though under 
clause 8(a) of rule I.
    Sec. 9.  Each day during the period addressed by sections 6 and 7 of this 
resolution shall not constitute a calendar day for purposes of section 7 of the 
War Powers Resolution (50 U.S.C. 1546).
    Sec. 10.  Upon adoption of this resolution it shall be in order to consider 
in the House the bill (H.R. 3695) to provide a temporary extension of the Food, 
Conservation, and Energy Act of 2008 and amendments made by that Act, as 
previously extended and amended and with certain additional modifications and 
exceptions, to suspend permanent price support authorities, and for other 
purposes. All points of order against consideration of the bill are waived. The 
amendment printed in part C of the report of the Committee on Rules accompanying 
this resolution shall be considered as adopted. The bill, as amended, shall be 
considered as read. All points of order against provisions in the bill, as 
amended, are waived. The previous question shall be considered as ordered on the 
bill, as amended, and on any amendment thereto to final passage without 
intervening motion except: (1) 40 minutes of debate equally divided and 
controlled by the chair and ranking minority member of the Committee on 
Agriculture; and (2) one motion to recommit with or without instructions.
    Sec. 11.  The requirement of clause 6(a) of rule XIII for a two-thirds vote 
to consider a report from the Committee on Rules on the same day it is presented 
to the House is waived with respect to any resolution reported through the 
legislative day of December 13, 2013.
            Attest:

                                                                          Clerk.
