
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H. Res. 686 Introduced in House (IH)]

113th CONGRESS
  2d Session
H. RES. 686

  Providing for consideration of the bill (H.R. 2821) to provide tax 
relief for American workers and businesses, to put workers back on the 
 job while rebuilding and modernizing America, and to provide pathways 
              back to work for Americans looking for jobs.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                             July 24, 2014

  Ms. Wilson of Florida submitted the following resolution; which was 
                   referred to the Committee on Rules

_______________________________________________________________________

                               RESOLUTION


 
  Providing for consideration of the bill (H.R. 2821) to provide tax 
relief for American workers and businesses, to put workers back on the 
 job while rebuilding and modernizing America, and to provide pathways 
              back to work for Americans looking for jobs.

    Resolved, That immediately upon adoption of this resolution the 
Speaker shall, pursuant to clause 2(b) of rule XVIII, declare the House 
resolved into the Committee of the Whole House on the state of the 
Union for consideration of the bill (H.R. 2821) to provide tax relief 
for American workers and businesses, to put workers back on the job 
while rebuilding and modernizing America, and to provide pathways back 
to work for Americans looking for jobs. All points of order against 
consideration of the bill are waived. General debate shall be confined 
to the bill and shall not exceed one hour equally divided and 
controlled by the chair and ranking minority member of the Committee on 
Ways and Means. After general debate the bill shall be considered for 
amendment under the five-minute rule. Each section of the bill shall be 
considered as read. All points of order against provisions in the bill 
are waived. At the conclusion of consideration of the bill for 
amendment the Committee shall rise and report the bill to the House 
with such amendments as may have been adopted. The previous question 
shall be considered as ordered on the bill and amendments thereto to 
final passage without intervening motion except one motion to recommit 
with or without instructions. If the Committee of the Whole rises and 
reports that it has come to no resolution on the bill, then on the next 
legislative day the House shall, immediately after the third daily 
order of business under clause 1 of rule XIV, resolve into the 
Committee of the Whole for further consideration of the bill.
    Sec. 2.  Clause 1(c) of rule XIX shall not apply to the 
consideration of H.R. 2821.
                                 <all>
