
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 1711 Introduced in House (IH)]

113th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                H. R. 1711

     To make funds available to the Department of Energy National 
    Laboratories for the Federal share of cooperative research and 
development agreements that support maturing Laboratory technology and 
     transferring it to the private sector, and for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                             April 24, 2013

 Mr. Ben Ray Lujan of New Mexico introduced the following bill; which 
    was referred to the Committee on Science, Space, and Technology

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
     To make funds available to the Department of Energy National 
    Laboratories for the Federal share of cooperative research and 
development agreements that support maturing Laboratory technology and 
     transferring it to the private sector, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Cooperative Research and Development 
Fund Authorization Act of 2013''.

SEC. 2. COOPERATIVE RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT FUND.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary of Energy shall make funds available 
to Department of Energy National Laboratories for the Federal share of 
cooperative research and development agreements that support maturing 
Laboratory technology and transferring it to the private sector.
    (b) Apportionment.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary of Energy shall determine 
        the apportionment of such funds to each Department of Energy 
        National Laboratory and shall ensure that special consideration 
        is given to small business firms and consortia involving small 
        business firms in the selection process for which cooperative 
        research and development agreements will receive such funds.
            (2) Definition.--In this section, the term ``small business 
        firm'' has the meaning given such term in section 4 of the 
        Stevenson-Wydler Technology Innovation Act of 1980 (15 U.S.C. 
        3703).
    (c) Performance Evaluation Metrics.--The Secretary of Energy shall 
ensure that the performance evaluation metrics of each National 
Laboratory operating contractor provide incentives for, and measure the 
effectiveness of, the contractor's cooperative research and development 
agreement program at maturing Laboratory technology and transferring it 
to the private sector.
    (d) Reporting.--
            (1) Requirement.--The Secretary of Energy shall annually 
        transmit to Congress a report that describes how funds were 
        expended under this section, including a description of--
                    (A) the types and sizes of non-Federal entities 
                that participated in cooperative research and 
                development agreements receiving funds under this 
                section; and
                    (B) the economic benefits resulting from 
                cooperative research and development agreements that 
                received funds under this section in previous years.
            (2) Consolidation of reports.--Reports required under this 
        subsection may be consolidated with other related reports 
        required from the Secretary.
    (e) Savings Provision.--Nothing in this section shall be construed 
to preclude or limit the use of funding provided under other authority 
of law for entering into or increasing the Federal share of cooperative 
research and development agreements, either in combination with funding 
provided under this section or separately.
    (f) Authorization of Appropriations.--There are authorized to be 
appropriated to the Secretary of Energy to carry out this section 
$20,000,000 for each of the fiscal years 2014 through 2018.
                                 <all>
