
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 314 Introduced in House (IH)]

113th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                H. R. 314

  To provide for Inspector General oversight for Federal entities not 
      otherwise subject to such oversight, and for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                            January 18, 2013

 Mrs. Emerson introduced the following bill; which was referred to the 
              Committee on Oversight and Government Reform

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
  To provide for Inspector General oversight for Federal entities not 
      otherwise subject to such oversight, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Inspector General Improvement Act of 
2013''.

SEC. 2. ASSIGNMENT OF INSPECTOR GENERAL TO CERTAIN FEDERAL ENTITIES.

    (a) Agency for International Development.--In addition to the other 
duties and responsibilities specified in the Inspector General Act of 
1978 (5 U.S.C. App.) the Inspector General of the Agency for 
International Development shall supervise, direct, and control audit 
and investigative activities (relating to such audits) pertaining to 
programs and operations within each of the following:
            (1) Trade and Development Agency.
            (2) Japan-United States Friendship Commission.
            (3) Overseas Private Investment Corporation.
    (b) Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System.--In addition 
to the other duties and responsibilities specified in the Inspector 
General Act of 1978 (5 U.S.C. App.) the Inspector General of the Board 
of Governors of the Federal Reserve System shall supervise, direct, and 
control audit and investigative activities (relating to such audits) 
pertaining to programs and operations within the Financial Institutions 
Examination Council.
    (c) Department of Defense.--In addition to the other duties and 
responsibilities specified in the Inspector General Act of 1978 (5 
U.S.C. App.) the Inspector General of the Department of Defense shall 
supervise, direct, and control audit and investigative activities 
(relating to such audits) pertaining to programs and operations within 
the Selective Service System.
    (d) Department of Education.--In addition to the other duties and 
responsibilities specified in the Inspector General Act of 1978 (5 
U.S.C. App.) the Inspector General of the Department of Education shall 
supervise, direct, and control audit and investigative activities 
(relating to such audits) pertaining to programs and operations within 
each of the following:
            (1) James Madison Memorial Fellowship Foundation.
            (2) Christopher Columbus Fellowship Foundation.
            (3) Morris K. Udall and Stewart L. Udall Foundation.
            (4) Barry M. Goldwater Scholarship and Excellence in 
        Education Program.
            (5) Vietnam Education Foundation.
            (6) Harry S. Truman Scholarship Foundation.
            (7) National Council on Disability.
    (e) Federal Labor Relations Authority.--In addition to the other 
duties and responsibilities specified in the Inspector General Act of 
1978 (5 U.S.C. App.) the Inspector General of the Federal Labor 
Relations Authority shall supervise, direct, and control audit and 
investigative activities (relating to such audits) pertaining to 
programs and operations within the National Mediation Board.
    (f) Department of Health and Human Services.--In addition to the 
other duties and responsibilities specified in the Inspector General 
Act of 1978 (5 U.S.C. App.) the Inspector General of the Department of 
Health and Human Services shall supervise, direct, and control audit 
and investigative activities (relating to such audits) pertaining to 
programs and operations within each of the following:
            (1) Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance 
        Board (Access Board).
            (2) U.S. Interagency Council on Homelessness.
            (3) Medicare Payment Advisory Commission.
    (g) Department of Homeland Security.--In addition to the other 
duties and responsibilities specified in the Inspector General Act of 
1978 (5 U.S.C. App.) the Inspector General of the Department of 
Homeland Security shall supervise, direct, and control audit and 
investigative activities (relating to such audits) pertaining to 
programs and operations within the Commission on the Prevention of 
Weapons of Mass Destruction Proliferation and Terrorism.
    (h) Department of the Interior.--In addition to the other duties 
and responsibilities specified in the Inspector General Act of 1978 (5 
U.S.C. App.) the Inspector General of the Department of the Interior 
shall supervise, direct, and control audit and investigative activities 
(relating to such audits) pertaining to programs and operations within 
each of the following:
            (1) Arctic Research Commission.
            (2) Office of the Federal Coordinator for Alaska Natural 
        Gas Transportation.
            (3) Valles Caldera Trust.
            (4) International Boundary Commission: United States and 
        Canada.
            (5) International Joint Commission: United States and 
        Canada.
            (6) Office of Navajo and Hopi Indian Relocation.
            (7) Utah Reclamation Mitigation and Conservation 
        Commission.
            (8) Dwight D. Eisenhower Memorial Commission.
            (9) The portion of the Presidio managed by the National 
        Park Service.
            (10) International Boundary and Water Commission.
    (i) Department of Labor.--In addition to the other duties and 
responsibilities specified in the Inspector General Act of 1978 (5 
U.S.C. App.) the Inspector General of the Department of Labor shall 
supervise, direct, and control audit and investigative activities 
(relating to such audits) pertaining to programs and operations within 
each of the following:
            (1) Occupational Safety and Health Review Commission.
            (2) Federal Mine Safety and Health Review Commission.
            (3) Federal Mediation Conciliation Service.
    (j) Department of State.--In addition to the other duties and 
responsibilities specified in the Inspector General Act of 1978 (5 
U.S.C. App.) the Inspector General of the Department of State shall 
supervise, direct, and control audit and investigative activities 
(relating to such audits) pertaining to programs and operations within 
the United States Commission on International Religious Freedom.
    (k) Department of the Treasury.--In addition to the other duties 
and responsibilities specified in the Inspector General Act of 1978 (5 
U.S.C. App.) the Treasury Inspector General for Tax Administration 
shall supervise, direct, and control audit and investigative activities 
(relating to such audits) pertaining to programs and operations within 
the United States Tax Court.
    (l) Environmental Protection Agency.--In addition to the other 
duties and responsibilities specified in the Inspector General Act of 
1978 (5 U.S.C. App.) the Inspector General of the Environmental 
Protection Agency shall supervise, direct, and control audit and 
investigative activities (relating to such audits) pertaining to 
programs and operations within the Marine Mammal Commission.
    (m) General Services Administration.--In addition to the other 
duties and responsibilities specified in the Inspector General Act of 
1978 (5 U.S.C. App.) the Inspector General of the General Services 
Administration shall supervise, direct, and control audit and 
investigative activities (relating to such audits) pertaining to 
programs and operations within each of the following:
            (1) National Capital Planning Commission.
            (2) Commission of Fine Arts.
            (3) Committee for Purchase From People Who Are Blind or 
        Severely Disabled.
    (n) Government Accountability Office.--In addition to the other 
duties and responsibilities specified in section 705 of title 31, 
United States Code, the Inspector General of the Government 
Accountability Office shall supervise, direct, and control audit and 
investigative activities (relating to such audits) pertaining to 
programs and operations within the Administrative Conference of the 
United States.
    (o) Intelligence Community.--In addition to the other duties and 
responsibilities specified in section 103H of the National Security Act 
of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 403-3h), the Inspector General of the Intelligence 
Community shall supervise, direct, and control audit and investigative 
activities (relating to such audits) pertaining to programs and 
operations within the Public Interest Declassification Board.
    (p) National Archives and Records Administration.--In addition to 
the other duties and responsibilities specified in the Inspector 
General Act of 1978 (5 U.S.C. App.) the Inspector General of the 
National Archives and Records Administration shall supervise, direct, 
and control audit and investigative activities (relating to such 
audits) pertaining to programs and operations within the Advisory 
Council on Historic Preservation.
    (q) Nuclear Regulatory Commission.--In addition to the other duties 
and responsibilities specified in the Inspector General Act of 1978 (5 
U.S.C. App.) the Inspector General of the Nuclear Regulatory Commission 
shall supervise, direct, and control audit and investigative activities 
(relating to such audits) pertaining to programs and operations within 
the Nuclear Waste Technical Review Board.
    (r) Office of Personnel Management.--In addition to the other 
duties and responsibilities specified in the Inspector General Act of 
1978 (5 U.S.C. App.) the Inspector General of the Office of Personnel 
Management shall supervise, direct, and control audit and investigative 
activities (relating to such audits) pertaining to programs and 
operations within the Federal Retirement Thrift Investment Board.
    (s) Smithsonian Institution.--In addition to the other duties and 
responsibilities specified in the Inspector General Act of 1978 (5 
U.S.C. App.) the Inspector General of the Smithsonian Institution shall 
supervise, direct, and control audit and investigative activities 
(relating to such audits) pertaining to programs and operations within 
the United States Holocaust Memorial Museum.
                                 <all>
