
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 334 Introduced in House (IH)]

113th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                H. R. 334

          To approve the Keystone XL pipeline project permit.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                            January 22, 2013

Mr. Poe of Texas (for himself, Mr. Conaway, Mr. Chabot, Mrs. Miller of 
 Michigan, Mr. Culberson, Mr. Hall, Mr. Duncan of South Carolina, Mrs. 
 Blackburn, Mr. King of Iowa, Mr. Farenthold, and Mr. Weber of Texas) 
 introduced the following bill; which was referred to the Committee on 
Transportation and Infrastructure, and in addition to the Committees on 
     Energy and Commerce and Natural Resources, for a period to be 
subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration 
  of such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the committee 
                               concerned

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
          To approve the Keystone XL pipeline project permit.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Keystone For a Secure Tomorrow 
Act''.

SEC. 2. FINDING.

    The Congress finds that the delivery of oil from Alberta, Canada, 
to domestic markets in the United States is in the national interest of 
the United States, and the earliest possible completion of the Keystone 
XL pipeline will best serve the national interest.

SEC. 3. KEYSTONE XL PIPELINE PERMIT APPROVAL.

    (a) Permit Approval.--The permit described in subsection (b) is 
hereby approved.
    (b) Description of Permit.--The permit approved under subsection 
(a) is the permit with respect to certain energy-related facilities and 
land transportation crossings on the international boundaries of the 
United States for the Keystone XL pipeline project, an application for 
which was filed on September 19, 2008 (including amendments). Such 
permit shall also include the Nebraska reroute evaluated in the Final 
Evaluation Report issued the Nebraska Department of Environmental 
Quality in January 2013.
    (c) Requirements.--The permit granted under subsection (a) shall 
require the following:
            (1) The permittee shall comply with all applicable Federal 
        and State laws (including regulations) and all applicable 
        industrial codes regarding the construction, connection, 
        operation, and maintenance of the United States facilities.
            (2) The permittee shall take all appropriate measures to 
        prevent or mitigate any adverse environmental impact or 
        disruption of historic properties in connection with the 
        construction, operation, and maintenance of the United States 
        facilities.
            (3) For the purpose of the permit approved under subsection 
        (a)--
                    (A) the final environmental impact statement issued 
                by the Secretary of State on August 26, 2011, and the 
                Final Evaluation Report described in subsection (b) 
                satisfy all requirements of the National Environmental 
                Policy Act of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 4321 et seq.) and section 
                106 of the National Historic Preservation Act (16 
                U.S.C. 470f);
                    (B) any modification required by the Secretary of 
                State to the Plan described in paragraph (4)(A) shall 
                not require supplementation of the final environmental 
                impact statement described in that paragraph; and
                    (C) no further Federal environmental review shall 
                be required.
            (4) The construction, operation, and maintenance of the 
        facilities shall be in all material respects similar to that 
        described in the application and the Final Evaluation Report 
        described in subsection (b) and in accordance with--
                    (A) the construction, mitigation, and reclamation 
                measures agreed to by the permittee in the Construction 
                Mitigation and Reclamation Plan found in appendix B of 
                the final environmental impact statement issued by the 
                Secretary of State on August 26, 2011;
                    (B) the special conditions agreed to between the 
                permittee and the Administrator of the Pipeline 
                Hazardous Materials Safety Administration of the 
                Department of Transportation found in appendix U of the 
                final environmental impact statement described in 
                subparagraph (A); and
                    (C) the stipulations identified in appendix S of 
                the final environmental impact statement described in 
                subparagraph (A).
            (5) Other requirements that are standard industry practice 
        or commonly included in Federal permits that are similar to a 
        permit approved under subsection (a).
    (d) Private Property Savings Clause.--Nothing in this section 
alters the Federal, State, or local processes or conditions in effect 
on the date of enactment of this Act that are necessary to secure 
access from private property owners to construct the Keystone XL 
pipeline.
                                 <all>
