
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 75 Introduced in House (IH)]

113th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                 H. R. 75

     To end membership of the United States in the United Nations.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                            January 3, 2013

Mr. Broun of Georgia introduced the following bill; which was referred 
                  to the Committee on Foreign Affairs

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
     To end membership of the United States in the United Nations.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``American Sovereignty Restoration Act 
of 2013''.

SEC. 2. REPEAL OF UNITED NATIONS PARTICIPATION ACT OF 1945.

    (a) Repeal.--The United Nations Participation Act of 1945 (Public 
Law 79-264; 22 U.S.C. 287 et seq.) is repealed.
    (b) Termination of Membership in United Nations.--The President 
shall terminate all membership by the United States in the United 
Nations, and in any organ, specialized agency, commission, or other 
formally affiliated body of the United Nations.
    (c) Closure of United States Mission to United Nations.--The United 
States Mission to the United Nations is closed. Any remaining functions 
of such office shall not be carried out.

SEC. 3. REPEAL OF UNITED NATIONS HEADQUARTERS AGREEMENT ACT.

    (a) Repeal.--The United Nations Headquarters Agreement Act (Public 
Law 80-357) is repealed.
    (b) Withdrawal.--The United States withdraws from the agreement 
between the United States of America and the United Nations regarding 
the headquarters of the United Nations (signed at Lake Success, New 
York, on June 26, 1947, which was brought into effect by the United 
Nations Headquarters Agreement Act).

SEC. 4. UNITED STATES ASSESSED AND VOLUNTARY CONTRIBUTIONS TO THE 
              UNITED NATIONS.

    No funds are authorized to be appropriated or otherwise made 
available for assessed or voluntary contributions of the United States 
to the United Nations or to any organ, specialized agency, commission 
or other formally affiliated body of the United Nations, except that 
funds may be appropriated to facilitate termination of United States 
membership and withdrawal of United States personnel and equipment, in 
accordance with sections 2 and 3, respectively. Upon termination of 
United States membership, no payments shall be made to the United 
Nations or to any organ, specialized agency, commission or other 
formally affiliated body of the United Nations, out of any funds 
appropriated prior to such termination or out of any other funds 
available for such purposes.

SEC. 5. UNITED NATIONS PEACEKEEPING OPERATIONS.

    (a) Termination.--No funds are authorized to be appropriated or 
otherwise made available for any United States contribution to any 
United Nations military or peacekeeping operation or force.
    (b) Terminations of United States Participation in United Nations 
Peacekeeping Operations.--No funds may be obligated or expended to 
support the participation of any member of the Armed Forces of the 
United States as part of any United Nations military or peacekeeping 
operation or force. No member of the Armed Forces of the United States 
may serve under the command of the United Nations.

SEC. 6. WITHDRAWAL OF UNITED NATIONS PRESENCE IN FACILITIES OF THE 
              GOVERNMENT OF THE UNITED STATES AND REPEAL OF DIPLOMATIC 
              IMMUNITY.

    (a) Withdrawal From United States Government Property.--The United 
Nations (including any organ, specialized agency, commission or other 
formally affiliated body of the United Nations) may not occupy or use 
any property or facility of the United States Government.
    (b) Diplomatic Immunity.--No officer or employee of the United 
Nations (including any organ, specialized agency, commission or other 
formally affiliated body of the United Nations) or any representative, 
officer, or employee of any mission to the United Nations of any 
foreign government shall be entitled to enjoy the privileges and 
immunities of the Vienna Convention on Diplomatic Relations of April 
18, 1961, nor may any such privileges and immunities be extended to any 
such individual. The privileges, exemptions, and immunities provided 
for in the International Organizations Immunities Act of December 29, 
1945 (59 Stat. 669; 22 U.S.C. 288 et seq.), or in any agreement or 
treaty to which the United States is a party, including the agreement 
entitled ``Agreement Between the United Nations and the United States 
of America Regarding the Headquarters of the United Nations'', signed 
June 26, 1947 (22 U.S.C. 287 note), and the Convention on Privileges 
and Immunities of the United Nations, entered into force with respect 
to the United States on April 29, 1970 (21 UST 1418; TIAS 6900; UNTS 
16), shall not apply to the United Nations or to any organ, specialized 
agency, commission or other formally affiliated body of the United 
Nations, to the officers and employees of the United Nations, or of any 
organ, specialized agency, commission or other formally affiliated body 
of the United Nations, or to the families, suites, or servants of such 
officers or employees.

SEC. 7. REPEAL OF UNITED STATES MEMBERSHIP AND PARTICIPATION IN THE 
              UNITED NATIONS EDUCATIONAL, SCIENTIFIC, AND CULTURAL 
              ORGANIZATION.

    The joint resolution entitled ``A joint resolution providing for 
membership and participation by the United States in the United Nations 
Educational, Scientific, and Cultural Organization, and authorizing an 
appropriation therefor'', approved July 30, 1946 (Public Law 79-565, 22 
U.S.C. 287m et seq.), is repealed.

SEC. 8. REPEAL OF UNITED NATIONS ENVIRONMENT PROGRAM PARTICIPATION ACT 
              OF 1973.

    The United Nations Environment Program Participation Act of 1973 
(22 U.S.C. 287 note) is repealed.

SEC. 9. REPEAL OF UNITED STATES PARTICIPATION IN THE WORLD HEALTH 
              ORGANIZATION.

    The joint resolution entitled ``Joint Resolution providing for 
membership and participation by the United States in the World Health 
Organization and authorizing an appropriation therefor'', approved June 
14, 1948 (22 U.S.C. 290, is repealed.

SEC. 10. REPEAL OF INVOLVEMENT IN UNITED NATIONS CONVENTIONS AND 
              AGREEMENTS.

    Effective on the date of the enactment of this Act, the United 
States will end any participation in any conventions and agreements 
with the United Nations and any organ, specialized agency, commission, 
or other formally affiliated body of the United Nations. Any remaining 
functions of such conventions and agreements shall not be carried out.

SEC. 11. REEMPLOYMENT WITH UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT AFTER SERVICE WITH 
              AN INTERNATIONAL ORGANIZATION.

    Nothing in this Act shall be construed to affect the rights of 
employees under subchapter IV of chapter 35 of title 5, United States 
Code, relating to reemployment after service with an international 
organization.

SEC. 12. NOTIFICATION.

    Effective on the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary 
of State shall notify the United Nations and any organ, specialized 
agency, commission, or other formally affiliated body of the United 
Nations of the provisions of this Act.

SEC. 13. EFFECTIVE DATE.

    Except as otherwise provided, this Act and the amendments made by 
this Act shall take effect on the date that is two years after the date 
of the enactment of this Act.
                                 <all>
