
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H. Res. 472 Engrossed in House (EH)]

H. Res. 472

                In the House of Representatives, U. S.,

                                                      February 5, 2014.
    Resolved, That at any time after adoption of this resolution the Speaker 
may, pursuant to clause 2(b) of rule XVIII, declare the House resolved into the 
Committee of the Whole House on the state of the Union for consideration of the 
bill (H.R. 2954) to authorize Escambia County, Florida, to convey certain 
property that was formerly part of Santa Rosa Island National Monument and that 
was conveyed to Escambia County subject to restrictions on use and reconveyance. 
The first reading of the bill shall be dispensed with. All points of order 
against consideration of the bill are waived. General debate shall be confined 
to the bill and shall not exceed one hour equally divided and controlled by the 
chair and ranking minority member of the Committee on Natural Resources. After 
general debate the bill shall be considered for amendment under the five-minute 
rule. It shall be in order to consider as an original bill for the purpose of 
amendment under the five-minute rule an amendment in the nature of a substitute 
consisting of the text of Rules Committee Print 113-35. That amendment in the 
nature of a substitute shall be considered as read. All points of order against 
that amendment in the nature of a substitute are waived. No amendment to that 
amendment in the nature of a substitute shall be in order except those printed 
in part A of the report of the Committee on Rules accompanying this resolution. 
Each such amendment may be offered only in the order printed in the report, may 
be offered only by a Member designated in the report, shall be considered as 
read, shall be debatable for the time specified in the report equally divided 
and controlled by the proponent and an opponent, shall not be subject to 
amendment, and shall not be subject to a demand for division of the question in 
the House or in the Committee of the Whole. All points of order against such 
amendments are waived. At the conclusion of consideration of the bill for 
amendment the Committee shall rise and report the bill to the House with such 
amendments as may have been adopted. Any Member may demand a separate vote in 
the House on any amendment adopted in the Committee of the Whole to the bill or 
to the amendment in the nature of a substitute made in order as original text. 
The previous question shall be considered as ordered on the bill and amendments 
thereto to final passage without intervening motion except one motion to 
recommit with or without instructions.
    Sec. 2.  At any time after adoption of this resolution the Speaker may, 
pursuant to clause 2(b) of rule XVIII, declare the House resolved into the 
Committee of the Whole House on the state of the Union for consideration of the 
bill (H.R. 3964) to address certain water-related concerns in the Sacramento-San 
Joaquin Valley, and for other purposes. The first reading of the bill shall be 
dispensed with. All points of order against consideration of the bill are 
waived. General debate shall be confined to the bill and shall not exceed one 
hour equally divided and controlled by the chair and ranking minority member of 
the Committee on Natural Resources. After general debate the bill shall be 
considered for amendment under the five-minute rule. It shall be in order to 
consider as an original bill for the purpose of amendment under the five-minute 
rule an amendment in the nature of a substitute consisting of the text of Rules 
Committee Print 113-34. That amendment in the nature of a substitute shall be 
considered as read. All points of order against that amendment in the nature of 
a substitute are waived. No amendment to that amendment in the nature of a 
substitute shall be in order except those printed in part B of the report of the 
Committee on Rules accompanying this resolution. Each such amendment may be 
offered only in the order printed in the report, may be offered only by a Member 
designated in the report, shall be considered as read, shall be debatable for 
the time specified in the report equally divided and controlled by the proponent 
and an opponent, shall not be subject to amendment, and shall not be subject to 
a demand for division of the question in the House or in the Committee of the 
Whole. All points of order against such amendments are waived. At the conclusion 
of consideration of the bill for amendment the Committee shall rise and report 
the bill to the House with such amendments as may have been adopted. Any Member 
may demand a separate vote in the House on any amendment adopted in the 
Committee of the Whole to the bill or to the amendment in the nature of a 
substitute made in order as original text. The previous question shall be 
considered as ordered on the bill and amendments thereto to final passage 
without intervening motion except one motion to recommit with or without 
instructions.
            Attest:

                                                                          Clerk.
