
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 5116 Referred in Senate (RFS)]

113th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                H. R. 5116


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                             July 24, 2014

Received; read twice and referred to the Committee on Homeland Security 
                        and Governmental Affairs

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 AN ACT


 
  To direct the Secretary of Homeland Security to train Department of 
Homeland Security personnel how to effectively deter, detect, disrupt, 
and prevent human trafficking during the course of their primary roles 
             and responsibilities, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Human Trafficking Detection Act of 
2014''.

SEC. 2. DEFINITIONS.

    In this Act:
            (1) Department.--The term ``Department'' means the 
        Department of Homeland Security.
            (2) Human trafficking.--The term ``human trafficking'' 
        means an act or practice described in paragraph (9) or (10) of 
        section 103 of the Trafficking Victims Protection Act of 2000 
        (22 U.S.C. 7102).
            (3) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary 
        of Homeland Security.

SEC. 3. TRAINING FOR DEPARTMENT PERSONNEL TO IDENTIFY HUMAN 
              TRAFFICKING.

    (a) In General.--Not later than 180 days after the date of 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall implement a program to--
            (1) train and periodically retrain relevant Transportation 
        Security Administration, U.S. Customs and Border Protection, 
        and other Department personnel that the Secretary considers 
        appropriate, how to effectively deter, detect, and disrupt 
        human trafficking, and, where appropriate, interdict a 
        suspected perpetrator of human trafficking, during the course 
        of their primary roles and responsibilities; and
            (2) ensure that the personnel referred to in paragraph (1) 
        regularly receive current information on matters related to the 
        detection of human trafficking, including information that 
        becomes available outside of the Department's initial or 
        periodic retraining schedule, to the extent relevant to their 
        official duties and consistent with applicable information and 
        privacy laws.
    (b) Training Described.--The training referred to in subsection (a) 
may be conducted through in-class or virtual learning capabilities, and 
shall include--
            (1) methods for identifying suspected victims of human 
        trafficking and, where appropriate, perpetrators of human 
        trafficking;
            (2) for appropriate personnel, methods to approach a 
        suspected victim of human trafficking, where appropriate, in a 
        manner that is sensitive to the suspected victim and is not 
        likely to alert a suspected perpetrator of human trafficking;
            (3) training that is most appropriate for a particular 
        location or environment in which the personnel receiving such 
        training perform their official duties;
            (4) other topics determined by the Secretary to be 
        appropriate; and
            (5) a post-training evaluation for personnel receiving the 
        training.
    (c) Training Curriculum Review.--The Secretary shall annually 
reassess the training program established under subsection (a) to 
ensure it is consistent with current techniques, patterns, and trends 
associated with human trafficking.

SEC. 4. CERTIFICATION AND REPORT TO CONGRESS.

    (a) Certification.--Not later than one year after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall certify to the appropriate 
congressional committees that all personnel referred to in section 3(a) 
have successfully completed the training required under that section.
    (b) Report to Congress.--Not later than one year after the date of 
the enactment of this Act and annually thereafter, the Secretary shall 
report to the appropriate congressional committees the overall 
effectiveness of the program required by this Act, the number of cases 
reported by Department personnel in which human trafficking was 
suspected and, of those cases, the number of cases that were confirmed 
cases of such trafficking.

SEC. 5. ASSISTANCE TO NON-FEDERAL ENTITIES.

    The Secretary may provide training curricula to any State, local, 
or tribal government or private organization to assist such entity in 
establishing its program of training to identify human trafficking, 
upon request from such entity.

            Passed the House of Representatives July 23, 2014.

            Attest:

                                                 KAREN L. HAAS,

                                                                 Clerk.
