
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 1724 Introduced in House (IH)]

113th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                H. R. 1724

  To eliminate taxpayer financing of presidential campaigns and party 
 conventions and reprogram savings to provide for a 10-year pediatric 
    research initiative through the Common Fund administered by the 
         National Institutes of Health, and for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                             April 25, 2013

  Mr. Harper (for himself, Mr. Cole, Mr. Barletta, Mr. Hultgren, Ms. 
Jenkins, Mr. Meehan, and Mrs. Walorski) introduced the following bill; 
  which was referred to the Committee on Energy and Commerce, and in 
addition to the Committees on House Administration and Ways and Means, 
for a period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case 
for consideration of such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of 
                        the committee concerned

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
  To eliminate taxpayer financing of presidential campaigns and party 
 conventions and reprogram savings to provide for a 10-year pediatric 
    research initiative through the Common Fund administered by the 
         National Institutes of Health, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Kids First Research Act of 2013''.

SEC. 2. TERMINATION OF TAXPAYER FINANCING OF PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION 
              CAMPAIGNS.

    (a) Termination of Designation of Income Tax Payments.--Section 
6096 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 is amended by adding at the 
end the following new subsection:
    ``(d) Termination.--This section shall not apply to taxable years 
ending on or after the date of the enactment of this subsection.''.
    (b) Termination of Fund and Account.--
            (1) Termination of presidential election campaign fund.--
                    (A) In general.--Chapter 95 of such Code is amended 
                by adding at the end the following new section:

``SEC. 9014. TERMINATION.

    ``The provisions of this chapter shall not apply with respect to 
any presidential election (or any presidential nominating convention) 
after the date of the enactment of this section, or to any candidate in 
such an election.''.
                    (B) Conversion of fund to 10-year pediatric 
                research initiative fund.--Section 9006 of such Code is 
                amended by adding at the end the following new 
                subsection:
    ``(d) Conversion to 10-Year Pediatric Research Initiative Fund.--
            ``(1) Conversion.--Effective on the date of the enactment 
        of the Kids First Research Act of 2013--
                    ``(A) the special fund established under this 
                section shall be known and designated as the `10-Year 
                Pediatric Research Initiative Fund'; and
                    ``(B) all amounts in the fund as of such date shall 
                be available only for the purpose provided in section 
                402A(a)(2) of the Public Health Service Act, and only 
                to the extent and in such amounts as are provided in 
                advance in appropriation Acts.
            ``(2) Termination.--Any amounts in the fund that remain 
        unobligated on October 1, 2024, shall be deposited into the 
        general fund of the Treasury.''.
            (2) Termination of account.--Chapter 96 of such Code is 
        amended by adding at the end the following new section:

``SEC. 9043. TERMINATION.

    ``The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to any candidate 
with respect to any presidential election after the date of the 
enactment of this section.''.
    (c) Clerical Amendments.--
            (1) The table of sections for chapter 95 of such Code is 
        amended by adding at the end the following new item:

``Sec. 9014. Termination.''.
            (2) The table of sections for chapter 96 of such Code is 
        amended by adding at the end the following new item:

``Sec. 9043. Termination.''.

SEC. 3. 10-YEAR PEDIATRIC RESEARCH INITIATIVE.

    (a) Allocation of NIH Funds in Common Fund for Pediatric 
Research.--Paragraph (7) of section 402(b) of the Public Health Service 
Act (42 U.S.C. 282(b)) is amended to read as follows:
            ``(7)(A) shall, through the Division of Program 
        Coordination, Planning, and Strategic Initiatives--
                    ``(i) identify research that represents important 
                areas of emerging scientific opportunities, rising 
                public health challenges, or knowledge gaps that 
                deserve special emphasis and would benefit from 
                conducting or supporting additional research that 
                involves collaboration between 2 or more national 
                research institutes or national centers, or would 
                otherwise benefit from strategic coordination and 
                planning;
                    ``(ii) include information on such research in 
                reports under section 403; and
                    ``(iii) in the case of such research supported with 
                funds referred to in subparagraph (B)--
                            ``(I) require as appropriate that proposals 
                        include milestones and goals for the research;
                            ``(II) require that the proposals include 
                        timeframes for funding of the research; and
                            ``(III) ensure appropriate consideration of 
                        proposals for which the principal investigator 
                        is an individual who has not previously served 
                        as the principal investigator of research 
                        conducted or supported by the National 
                        Institutes of Health;
            ``(B)(i) may, with respect to funds reserved under section 
        402A(c)(1) for the Common Fund, allocate such funds to the 
        national research institutes and national centers for 
        conducting and supporting research that is identified under 
        subparagraph (A); and
            ``(ii) shall, with respect to funds appropriated to the 
        Common Fund under section 402A(a)(2), allocate such funds to 
        the national research institutes and national centers for 
        making grants for pediatric research that is identified under 
        subparagraph (A); and
            ``(C) may assign additional functions to the Division in 
        support of responsibilities identified in subparagraph (A), as 
        determined appropriate by the Director;''.
    (b) Funding for 10-Year Pediatric Research Initiative.--Section 
402A of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 282a) is amended--
            (1) in subsection (a)--
                    (A) by redesignating paragraphs (1) through (3) as 
                subparagraphs (A) through (C), respectively, and moving 
                the indentation of each such subparagraph 2 ems to the 
                right;
                    (B) by striking ``For purposes of carrying out this 
                title'' and inserting the following:
            ``(1) This title.--For purposes of carrying out this 
        title''; and
                    (C) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(2) Funding for 10-year pediatric research initiative 
        through common fund.--For carrying out section 
        402(b)(7)(B)(ii), there is authorized to be appropriated, out 
        of funds in the 10-Year Pediatric Research Initiative Fund 
        established by section 9006 of the Internal Revenue Code of 
        1986, and in addition to amounts otherwise made available under 
        paragraph (1) of this subsection and reserved under subsection 
        (c)(1)(B)(i) of this section, $13,000,000 for each of fiscal 
        years 2014 through 2023.''; and
            (2) in subsections (c)(1)(B), (c)(1)(D), and (d), by 
        striking ``subsection (a)'' each place it appears and inserting 
        ``subsection (a)(1)''.
    (c) Supplement, Not Supplant; Prohibition Against Transfer.--Funds 
appropriated under section 402A(a)(2) of the Public Health Service Act, 
as added by subsection (b)--
            (1) shall be used to supplement, not supplant, the funds 
        otherwise allocated by the National Institutes of Health for 
        pediatric research; and
            (2) notwithstanding any transfer authority in any 
        appropriation Act, shall not be used for any purpose other than 
        making grants as described in section 402(b)(7)(B)(ii) of the 
        Public Health Service Act, as added by subsection (a).

SEC. 4. PROHIBITION AGAINST NIH RESEARCH ON HEALTH ECONOMICS.

    Section 402A of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 282a) is 
amended by adding at the end the following:
    ``(f) Health Economics Research.--
            ``(1) Ongoing research.--Before continuing any health 
        economics research grant, project, or activity that is ongoing 
        as of the date of the enactment of this subsection, the 
        Director of NIH shall submit to the Congress a report that 
        outlines the justification for such ongoing grant, project, or 
        activity, including the reason for giving priority to such 
        ongoing grant, project, or activity over research on pediatric 
        diseases and disorders, such as autism, cancer, and other 
        pediatric genetic disorders without cures.
            ``(2) New research.--The Director of NIH may not initiate 
        any health economics research grant, project, or activity 
        until--
                    ``(A) the Director has submitted the report 
                described in paragraph (1); and
                    ``(B) a Federal law has been enacted authorizing 
                the National Institutes of Health to use funding 
                specifically for health economics research.''.
                                 <all>
