
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 3836 Introduced in House (IH)]

113th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                H. R. 3836

 To award a Congressional Gold Medal to Pat Summitt, in recognition of 
her remarkable career as an unparalleled figure in women's team sports, 
 and for her courage in speaking out openly and courageously about her 
                        battle with Alzheimer's.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                            January 9, 2014

  Mr. Duncan of Tennessee (for himself, Ms. Speier, Mrs. Black, Mrs. 
  Blackburn, Mr. Cohen, Mr. Cooper, Mr. DesJarlais, Mr. Fincher, Mr. 
 Fleischmann, and Mr. Roe of Tennessee) introduced the following bill; 
       which was referred to the Committee on Financial Services

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
 To award a Congressional Gold Medal to Pat Summitt, in recognition of 
her remarkable career as an unparalleled figure in women's team sports, 
 and for her courage in speaking out openly and courageously about her 
                        battle with Alzheimer's.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Pat Summitt Congressional Gold Medal 
Act''.

SEC. 2. FINDINGS.

    The Congress finds the following:
            (1) Pat Summitt, who has more wins than any basketball 
        coach in NCAA history, men or women, concluded her coaching 
        career after 38 seasons at the University of Tennessee on April 
        18, 2012.
            (2) Pat Summitt won a record eight NCAA championships, and 
        received National Coach of the Year honors 7 times over her 
        career.
            (3) Pat Summitt will remain head coach emeritus at the 
        University of Tennessee, mentoring and teaching life skills to 
        players.
            (4) Coaching has been the great passion of Pat Summitt's 
        life, and the job has always been an opportunity for her to 
        work with student-athletes and help them discover their true 
        potential.
            (5) Coach Summitt's last team at the University of 
        Tennessee finished with an overall record of 27-9, including an 
        SEC Tournament Championship and a spot in the Final Four in 
        Denver.
            (6) Pat Summitt continued her work off the court, including 
        a graduation record of 100 percent for all Lady Vols who 
        completed their eligibility at the University of Tennessee.
            (7) Pat Summitt announced on August 23, 2011, that she had 
        been diagnosed with early onset dementia, ``Alzheimer's Type''.
            (8) Later in November 2011, Coach Summitt announced the Pat 
        Summitt Foundation Fund, which helps to provide funding and 
        research for Alzheimer's and dementia.
            (9) On May 29, 2012, President Barack Obama awarded the 
        Presidential Medal of Freedom, the country's highest civilian 
        honor, to Pat Summitt for her remarkable career as an 
        unparalleled figure in women's team sports, and for her courage 
        in speaking out openly and courageously about her battle with 
        Alzheimer's.

SEC. 3. CONGRESSIONAL GOLD MEDAL.

    (a) Presentation Authorized.--The Speaker of the House of 
Representatives and the President pro tempore of the Senate shall make 
appropriate arrangements for the presentation, on behalf of the 
Congress, of a gold medal of appropriate design to Pat Summitt, in 
recognition of her remarkable career as an unparalleled figure in 
women's team sports, and for her courage in speaking out openly and 
courageously about her battle with Alzheimer's.
    (b) Design and Striking.--For purposes of the presentation referred 
to in subsection (a), the Secretary of the Treasury (referred to in 
this Act as the ``Secretary'') shall strike a gold medal with suitable 
emblems, devices, and inscriptions, to be determined by the Secretary.

SEC. 4. DUPLICATE MEDALS.

    The Secretary may strike and sell duplicates in bronze of the gold 
medal struck pursuant to section 3 under such regulations as the 
Secretary may prescribe, at a price sufficient to cover the cost 
thereof, including labor, materials, dies, use of machinery, and 
overhead expenses, and the cost of the gold medal.

SEC. 5. STATUS OF MEDALS.

    (a) National Medals.--The medals struck pursuant to this Act are 
national medals for purposes of chapter 51 of title 31, United States 
Code.
    (b) Numismatic Items.--For purposes of section 5134 of title 31, 
United States Code, all medals struck under this Act shall be 
considered to be numismatic items.
                                 <all>
