
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H. Res. 557 Engrossed in House (EH)]

H. Res. 557

                In the House of Representatives, U. S.,

                                                        April 30, 2014.
    Resolved, That at any time after adoption of this resolution the Speaker 
may, pursuant to clause 2(b) of rule XVIII, declare the House resolved into the 
Committee of the Whole House on the state of the Union for consideration of the 
bill (H.R. 4486) making appropriations for military construction, the Department 
of Veterans Affairs, and related agencies for the fiscal year ending September 
30, 2015, and for other purposes. The first reading of the bill shall be 
dispensed with. All points of order against consideration of the bill are 
waived. General debate shall be confined to the bill and shall not exceed one 
hour equally divided and controlled by the chair and ranking minority member of 
the Committee on Appropriations. After general debate the bill shall be 
considered for amendment under the five-minute rule. Points of order against 
provisions in the bill for failure to comply with clause 2 of rule XXI are 
waived. During consideration of the bill for amendment, the chair of the 
Committee of the Whole may accord priority in recognition on the basis of 
whether the Member offering an amendment has caused it to be printed in the 
portion of the Congressional Record designated for that purpose in clause 8 of 
rule XVIII. Amendments so printed shall be considered as read. When the 
committee rises and reports the bill back to the House with a recommendation 
that the bill do pass, the previous question shall be considered as ordered on 
the bill and amendments thereto to final passage without intervening motion 
except one motion to recommit with or without instructions.
    Sec. 2.  At any time after adoption of this resolution the Speaker may, 
pursuant to clause 2(b) of rule XVIII, declare the House resolved into the 
Committee of the Whole House on the state of the Union for consideration of the 
bill (H.R. 4487) making appropriations for the Legislative Branch for the fiscal 
year ending September 30, 2015, and for other purposes. The first reading of the 
bill shall be dispensed with. All points of order against consideration of the 
bill are waived. General debate shall be confined to the bill and shall not 
exceed one hour equally divided and controlled by the chair and ranking minority 
member of the Committee on Appropriations. After general debate the bill shall 
be considered for amendment under the five-minute rule. The bill shall be 
considered as read. All points of order against provisions in the bill for 
failure to comply with clause 2 of rule XXI are waived. No amendment to the bill 
shall be in order except those printed in the report of the Committee on Rules 
accompanying this resolution. Each such amendment may be offered only in the 
order printed in the report, may be offered only by a Member designated in the 
report, shall be considered as read, shall be debatable for the time specified 
in the report equally divided and controlled by the proponent and an opponent, 
shall not be subject to amendment, and shall not be subject to a demand for 
division of the question in the House or in the Committee of the Whole. All 
points of order against such amendments are waived. At the conclusion of 
consideration of the bill for amendment the Committee shall rise and report the 
bill to the House with such amendments as may have been adopted. The previous 
question shall be considered as ordered on the bill and amendments thereto to 
final passage without intervening motion except one motion to recommit with or 
without instructions.
    Sec. 3.  Pending the adoption of a concurrent resolution on the budget for 
fiscal year 2015, the amounts provided for current law mandatory budget 
authority and outlays contained in the statement of the Chair of the Committee 
on the Budget of the House of Representatives in the Congressional Record dated 
April 29, 2014, shall be considered for all purposes in the House to be 
allocations to the Committee on Appropriations under section 302(a) of the 
Congressional Budget Act of 1974.
    Sec. 4.  During consideration of H.R. 4486 and H.R. 4487 pursuant to this 
resolution, the suballocations printed in House Report 113-425 shall be 
considered for all purposes in the House to be suballocations under section 
302(b) of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974.
            Attest:

                                                                          Clerk.
