
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H. Res. 266 Engrossed in House (EH)]

H. Res. 266

                In the House of Representatives, U. S.,

                                                         June 18, 2013.
    Resolved, That at any time after the adoption of this resolution the Speaker 
may, pursuant to clause 2(b) of rule XVIII, declare the House resolved into the 
Committee of the Whole House on the state of the Union for consideration of the 
bill (H.R. 1947) to provide for the reform and continuation of agricultural and 
other programs of the Department of Agriculture through fiscal year 2018, and 
for other purposes. The first reading of the bill shall be dispensed with. All 
points of order against consideration of the bill are waived. General debate 
shall be confined to the bill and shall not exceed one hour equally divided and 
controlled by the chair and ranking minority member of the Committee on 
Agriculture. After general debate, the Committee of the Whole shall rise without 
motion. No further consideration of the bill shall be in order except pursuant 
to a subsequent order of the House.
    Sec. 2.  Upon the adoption of this resolution it shall be in order to 
consider in the House the bill (H.R. 1797) to amend title 18, United States 
Code, to protect pain-capable unborn children in the District of Columbia, and 
for other purposes. All points of order against consideration of the bill are 
waived. In lieu of the amendment in the nature of a substitute recommended by 
the Committee on the Judiciary now printed in the bill, an amendment in the 
nature of a substitute consisting of the text of Rules Committee Print 113-15 
shall be considered as adopted. The bill, as amended, shall be considered as 
read. All points of order against provisions in the bill, as amended, are 
waived. The previous question shall be considered as ordered on the bill, as 
amended, and on any amendment thereto to final passage without intervening 
motion except: (1) one hour of debate equally divided and controlled by the 
chair and ranking minority member of the Committee on the Judiciary; and (2) one 
motion to recommit with or without instructions.
            Attest:

                                                                          Clerk.
