
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 5234 Introduced in House (IH)]

113th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                H. R. 5234

 To amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to allow a credit against 
              tax for manufacturing job training expenses.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                             July 29, 2014

 Ms. Shea-Porter introduced the following bill; which was referred to 
                    the Committee on Ways and Means

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
 To amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to allow a credit against 
              tax for manufacturing job training expenses.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Rewarding the Training of Employees 
for American Manufacturing Act of 2014'' or the ``Rewarding the TEAM 
Act''.

SEC. 2. MANUFACTURING JOB TRAINING TAX CREDIT.

    (a) In General.--Subpart D of part IV of subchapter A of chapter 1 
of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 is amended by adding at the end 
the following new section:

``SEC. 45S. MANUFACTURING JOB TRAINING CREDIT.

    ``(a) In General.--For the purposes of section 38, the 
manufacturing job training credit determined under this section for the 
taxable year is an amount equal to 14 percent of so much of the 
manufacturing training expenses paid or incurred by a qualified 
manufacturing employer during the taxable year as exceeds 50 percent of 
the average manufacturing training expenses for the 3 taxable years 
preceding the taxable year for which the credit is determined.
    ``(b) Definitions.--For purposes of this section--
            ``(1) Manufacturing training expenses.--
                    ``(A) In general.--The term `manufacturing training 
                expenses' means, with respect to any eligible employee 
                of the taxpayer, expenses paid or incurred by such 
                taxpayer for any manufacturing training program, 
                including any related course work, certification 
                testing, and essential skill acquisition.
                    ``(B) Eligible employee.--The term `eligible 
                employee' means any employee of the taxpayer whose 
                essential job function is within the United States and 
                relates to manufacturing at a manufacturing facility of 
                the taxpayer located within the United States.
            ``(2) Qualifying manufacturing employer.--The term 
        `qualified manufacturing employer' means any employer--
                    ``(A) which employs individuals in a trade or 
                business in manufacturing,
                    ``(B) the manufacturing facilities of which are 
                located in the United States, and
                    ``(C) the primary business of which is classified 
                in sector 31, 32, or 33 of the North American 
                Industrial Classification System.
    ``(c) Special Rules.--
            ``(1) Rule in case of no manufacturing training expenses in 
        any of 3 preceding taxable years.--
                    ``(A) Taxpayers to which paragraph applies.--The 
                credit under this section shall be determined under 
                this paragraph if the taxpayer has no manufacturing 
                training expenses in any one of the 3 taxable years 
                preceding the taxable year for which the credit is 
                being determined.
                    ``(B) Credit rate.--The credit determined under 
                this paragraph shall be equal to 6 percent of the 
                manufacturing training expenses for the taxable year.
            ``(2) Denial of double benefit.--No deduction shall be 
        allowed under this chapter for the portion of the expenses 
        otherwise allowable as a deduction that are taken into account 
        in determining the credit under this section for the taxable 
        year.
            ``(3) Aggregation.--For purposes of this section, all 
        persons treated as a single employer under subsection (a) or 
        (b) or section 52, or subsection (m) or (o) of section 414, 
        shall be treated as one person.
    ``(d) Election To Have Credit Not Apply.--A taxpayer may elect to 
have this section not apply for any taxable year.''.
    (b) Credit To Be Part of General Business Credit.--Subsection (b) 
of section 38 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 is amended by 
striking ``plus'' at the end of paragraph (35), by striking the period 
at the end of paragraph (36) and inserting ``, plus'', and by adding at 
the end the following new paragraph:
            ``(37) the manufacturing job training credit determined 
        under section 45S(a).''.
    (c) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections for subpart D of 
part IV of subchapter A of chapter 1 of the Internal Revenue Code of 
1986 is amended by adding at the end the following new item:

``Sec. 45S. Manufacturing job training credit.''.
    (d) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this section shall 
apply to expenses paid or incurred after the date of the enactment of 
this Act, in taxable years ending after such date.
                                 <all>
