
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 2818 Introduced in House (IH)]

113th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                H. R. 2818

To repeal the USA PATRIOT Act and the FISA Amendments Act of 2008, and 
                          for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                             July 24, 2013

   Mr. Holt introduced the following bill; which was referred to the 
Committee on the Judiciary, and in addition to the Select Committee on 
 Intelligence (Permanent Select), Financial Services, Foreign Affairs, 
 Energy and Commerce, Education and the Workforce, Transportation and 
  Infrastructure, and Armed Services, for a period to be subsequently 
   determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of such 
 provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
To repeal the USA PATRIOT Act and the FISA Amendments Act of 2008, and 
                          for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Surveillance State Repeal Act''.

SEC. 2. REPEAL OF USA PATRIOT ACT.

    The USA PATRIOT Act (Public Law 107-56) is repealed, and the 
provisions of law amended or repealed by such Act are restored or 
revived as if such Act had not been enacted.

SEC. 3. REPEAL OF THE FISA AMENDMENTS ACT OF 2008.

    (a) Repeal.--The FISA Amendments Act of 2008 (Public Law 110-261; 
122 Stat. 2477) is repealed, and the provisions of law amended or 
repealed by such Act are restored or revived as if such Act had not 
been enacted.
    (b) Exception.--Subsection (a) of this Act shall not apply to 
sections 103 and 110 of the FISA Amendments Act of 2008 (Public Law 
110-261; 122 Stat. 2477).

SEC. 4. TERMS OF JUDGES ON FOREIGN INTELLIGENCE SURVEILLANCE COURT; 
              REAPPOINTMENT; SPECIAL MASTERS.

    (a) Terms; Reappointment.--Section 103(d) of the Foreign 
Intelligence Surveillance Act of 1978 (50 U.S.C. 1803(d)) is amended--
            (1) by striking ``maximum of seven'' and inserting 
        ``maximum of ten''; and
            (2) by striking ``and shall not be eligible for 
        redesignation''.
    (b) Special Masters.--Section 103(f) of such Act, as amended by 
section 3 of this Act, is further amended by adding at the end the 
following new paragraph:
    ``(4) Special Masters.--
            ``(A) The courts established pursuant to subsections (a) 
        and (b) may appoint one or more Special Masters to advise the 
        courts on technical issues raised during proceedings before the 
        courts.
            ``(B) In this paragraph, the term `Special Master' means an 
        individual who has technological expertise in the subject 
        matter of a proceeding before a court established pursuant to 
        subsection (a) or (b).''.

SEC. 5. ELECTRONIC SURVEILLANCE OF SPECIFIED PERSONS WITHOUT REGARD TO 
              SPECIFIC DEVICE.

    Section 105(c)(2)(B) of the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act 
of 1978 (50 U.S.C. 1805(c)(2)(B)) is amended to read as follows:
                    ``(B) that, upon the request of the applicant, any 
                person or entity shall furnish the applicant forthwith 
                all information, facilities, or technical assistance 
                necessary to accomplish the electronic surveillance in 
                such a manner as will protect its secrecy and produce a 
                minimum of interference with the services that such 
                carrier, landlord, custodian, or other person is 
                providing that target of electronic surveillance;''.

SEC. 6. ADDITIONAL PROVISIONS FOR COLLECTIONS UNDER THE FOREIGN 
              INTELLIGENCE SURVEILLANCE ACT OF 1978.

    (a) In General.--Title VII of the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance 
Act of 1978 (50 U.S.C. 1801 et seq.), as amended by section 3 of this 
Act, is further amended to read as follows:

                   ``TITLE VII--ADDITIONAL PROVISIONS

``SEC. 701. WARRANT REQUIREMENT.

    ``Notwithstanding any other provision of this Act, no information 
relating to a United States person may be acquired pursuant to this Act 
without a valid warrant based on probable cause.''.
    (b) Table of Contents Amendments.--The table of contents in the 
first section of the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act of 1978 (50 
U.S.C. 1801 et seq.), as amended by section 3 of this Act, is further 
amended by striking the items relating to title VII and section 701 and 
inserting the following new items:

                   ``TITLE VII--ADDITIONAL PROVISIONS

``701. Warrant requirement.''.

SEC. 7. ENCRYPTION AND PRIVACY TECHNOLOGY OF ELECTRONIC DEVICES AND 
              SOFTWARE.

    Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the Federal Government 
shall not mandate that the manufacturer of an electronic device or 
software for an electronic device build into such device or software a 
mechanism that allows the Federal Government to bypass the encryption 
or privacy technology of such device or software.

SEC. 8. GAO COMPLIANCE EVALUATIONS.

    (a) In General.--The Comptroller General of the United States shall 
annually evaluate compliance by the Federal Government with the 
provisions of the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act of 1978 (50 
U.S.C. 1801 et seq.).
    (b) Report.--The Comptroller General shall annually submit to 
Congress a report containing the results of the evaluation conducted 
under subsection (a).

SEC. 9. WHISTLEBLOWER COMPLAINTS.

    (a) Authorization To Report Complaints or Information.--An employee 
of or contractor to an element of the intelligence community that has 
knowledge of the programs and activities authorized by the Foreign 
Intelligence Surveillance Act of 1978 (50 U.S.C. 1801 et seq.) may 
submit a covered complaint--
            (1) to the Comptroller General of the United States;
            (2) to the Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence of 
        the House of Representatives;
            (3) to the Select Committee on Intelligence of the Senate; 
        or
            (4) in accordance with the process established under 
        section 103H(k)(5) of the National Security Act of 1947 (50 
        U.S.C. 3033(k)(5)).
    (b) Investigations and Reports to Congress.--The Comptroller 
General shall investigate a covered complaint submitted pursuant to 
subsection (b)(1) and shall submit to Congress a report containing the 
results of the investigation.
    (c) Covered Complaint Defined.--In this section, the term ``covered 
complaint'' means a complaint or information concerning programs and 
activities authorized by the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act of 
1978 (50 U.S.C. 1801 et seq.) that an employee or contractor reasonably 
believes is evidence of--
            (1) a violation of any law, rule, or regulation; or
            (2) gross mismanagement, a gross waste of funds, an abuse 
        of authority, or a substantial and specific danger to public 
        health or safety.

SEC. 10. PROHIBITION ON INTERFERENCE WITH REPORTING OF WASTE, FRAUD, 
              ABUSE, OR CRIMINAL BEHAVIOR.

    (a) In General.--Notwithstanding any other provision of law, an 
officer or employee of an element of the intelligence community shall 
be subject to administrative sanctions, up to and including 
termination, for taking retaliatory action against an employee of or 
contractor to an element of the intelligence community who seeks to 
disclose or discloses covered information to--
            (1) the Comptroller General;
            (2) the Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence of the 
        House of Representatives;
            (3) the Select Committee on Intelligence of the Senate; or
            (4) the Office of the Inspector General of the Intelligence 
        Community.
    (b) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Covered information.--The term ``covered information'' 
        means any information (including classified or sensitive 
        information) that an employee or contractor reasonably believes 
        is evidence of--
                    (A) a violation of any law, rule, or regulation; or
                    (B) gross mismanagement, a gross waste of funds, an 
                abuse of authority, or a substantial and specific 
                danger to public health or safety.
            (2) Intelligence community.--The term ``intelligence 
        community'' has the meaning given the term in section 3 of the 
        National Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 3003).
                                 <all>
