
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 5003 Reported in House (RH)]

                                                 Union Calendar No. 532
113th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                H. R. 5003

                          [Report No. 113-701]

 To adjust the boundary of the Kennesaw Mountain National Battlefield 
  Park to include the Wallis House and Harriston Hill, and for other 
                               purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                             June 26, 2014

 Mr. Gingrey of Georgia (for himself, Mr. Lewis, and Mr. Westmoreland) 
 introduced the following bill; which was referred to the Committee on 
                           Natural Resources

                           December 22, 2014

                Additional sponsor: Mr. Price of Georgia

                           December 22, 2014

  Reported with an amendment, committed to the Committee of the Whole 
       House on the State of the Union, and ordered to be printed
 [Strike out all after the enacting clause and insert the part printed 
                               in italic]
 [For text of introduced bill, see copy of bill as introduced on June 
                               26, 2014]


_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
 To adjust the boundary of the Kennesaw Mountain National Battlefield 
  Park to include the Wallis House and Harriston Hill, and for other 
                               purposes.


 


    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Kennesaw Mountain National 
Battlefield Park Boundary Adjustment Act of 2014''.

SEC. 2. FINDINGS.

    The Congress finds the following:
            (1) Kennesaw Mountain National Battlefield Park was 
        authorized as a unit of the National Park System on June 26, 
        1935. Prior to 1935, parts of the park had been acquired and 
        protected by Civil War veterans and the War Department.
            (2) Kennesaw Mountain National Battlefield Park protects 
        Kennesaw Mountain and Kolb's Farm, which are battle sites along 
        the route of General Sherman's 1864 campaign to take Atlanta.
            (3) Most of the park protects Confederate positions and 
        strategy. The Wallis House is one of the few original 
        structures remaining from the Battle of Kennesaw Mountain 
        associated with Union positions and strategy.
            (4) The Wallis House is strategically located next to a 
        Union signal station at Harriston Hill.

SEC. 3. BOUNDARY ADJUSTMENT; LAND ACQUISITION; ADMINISTRATION.

    (a) Boundary Adjustment.--The boundary of the Kennesaw Mountain 
National Battlefield Park is modified to include the approximately 8 
acres identified as ``Wallis House and Harriston Hill'', and generally 
depicted on the map titled ``Kennesaw Mountain National Battlefield 
Park, Proposed Boundary Adjustment'', numbered 325/80,020, and dated 
February 2010.
    (b) Map.--The map referred to in subsection (a) shall be on file 
and available for inspection in the appropriate offices of the National 
Park Service.
    (c) Land Acquisition.--The Secretary of the Interior is authorized 
to acquire, from willing owners only, land or interests in land 
described in subsection (a) by donation or exchange.
    (d) Administration of Acquired Lands.--The Secretary of the 
Interior shall administer land and interests in land acquired under 
this section as part of the Kennesaw Mountain National Battlefield Park 
in accordance with applicable laws and regulations.
    (e) Written Consent of Owner.--No non-Federal property may be 
included in the Kennesaw Mountain National Battlefield Park without the 
written consent of the owner. This provision shall apply only to those 
portions of the Park added under subsection (a).
    (f) No Use of Condemnation.--The Secretary of the Interior may not 
acquire by condemnation any land or interests in land under this Act or 
for the purposes of this Act.
    (g) No Buffer Zone Created.--Nothing in this Act, the establishment 
of the Kennesaw Mountain National Battlefield Park, or the management 
plan for the Kennesaw Mountain National Battlefield Park shall be 
construed to create buffer zones outside of the Park. That activities 
or uses can be seen, heard, or detected from areas within the Kennesaw 
Mountain National Battlefield Park shall not preclude, limit, control, 
regulate or determine the conduct or management of activities or uses 
outside the Park.
                                                 Union Calendar No. 532

113th CONGRESS

  2d Session

                               H. R. 5003

                          [Report No. 113-701]

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL

 To adjust the boundary of the Kennesaw Mountain National Battlefield 
  Park to include the Wallis House and Harriston Hill, and for other 
                               purposes.

_______________________________________________________________________

                           December 22, 2014

  Reported with an amendment, committed to the Committee of the Whole 
       House on the State of the Union, and ordered to be printed
