
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H. Res. 590 Engrossed in House (EH)]

H. Res. 590

                In the House of Representatives, U. S.,

                                                          May 21, 2014.
    Resolved, That at any time after adoption of this resolution the Speaker 
may, pursuant to clause 2(b) of rule XVIII, declare the House resolved into the 
Committee of the Whole House on the state of the Union for further consideration 
of the bill (H.R. 4435) to authorize appropriations for fiscal year 2015 for 
military activities of the Department of Defense and for military construction, 
to prescribe military personnel strengths for such fiscal year, and for other 
purposes.
    Sec. 2.  (a) No further amendment to the bill, as amended, shall be in order 
except those printed in part A of the report of the Committee on Rules 
accompanying this resolution and amendments en bloc described in section 3 of 
this resolution.
     (b) Each further amendment printed in part A of the report of the Committee 
on Rules shall be considered only in the order printed in the report, may be 
offered only by a Member designated in the report, shall be considered as read, 
shall be debatable for the time specified in the report equally divided and 
controlled by the proponent and an opponent, shall not be subject to amendment, 
and shall not be subject to a demand for division of the question in the House 
or in the Committee of the Whole.
    (c) All points of order against the further amendments printed in part A of 
the report of the Committee on Rules or amendments en bloc described in section 
3 of this resolution are waived.
    Sec. 3.  It shall be in order at any time for the chair of the Committee on 
Armed Services or his designee to offer amendments en bloc consisting of 
amendments printed in part A of the report of the Committee on Rules 
accompanying this resolution not earlier disposed of. Amendments en bloc offered 
pursuant to this section shall be considered as read, shall be debatable for 20 
minutes equally divided and controlled by the chair and ranking minority member 
of the Committee on Armed Services or their designees, shall not be subject to 
amendment, and shall not be subject to a demand for division of the question in 
the House or in the Committee of the Whole.
    Sec. 4.  At the conclusion of consideration of the bill for amendment the 
Committee shall rise and report the bill to the House with such further 
amendments as may have been adopted. The previous question shall be considered 
as ordered on the bill and amendments thereto to final passage without 
intervening motion except one motion to recommit with or without instructions.
    Sec. 5.  Upon adoption of this resolution it shall be in order to consider 
in the House the bill (H.R. 3361) to reform the authorities of the Federal 
Government to require the production of certain business records, conduct 
electronic surveillance, use pen registers and trap and trace devices, and use 
other forms of information gathering for foreign intelligence, counterterrorism, 
and criminal purposes, and for other purposes. All points of order against 
consideration of the bill are waived. In lieu of the amendments in the nature of 
a substitute recommended by the Committee on the Judiciary and the Permanent 
Select Committee on Intelligence now printed in the bill, the amendment in the 
nature of a substitute printed in part B of the report of the Committee on Rules 
accompanying this resolution shall be considered as adopted. The bill, as 
amended, shall be considered as read. All points of order against provisions in 
the bill, as amended, are waived. The previous question shall be considered as 
ordered on the bill, as amended, and on any amendment thereto to final passage 
without intervening motion except: (1) one hour of debate, with 40 minutes 
equally divided and controlled by the chair and ranking minority member of the 
Committee on the Judiciary and 20 minutes equally divided and controlled by the 
chair and ranking minority member of the Permanent Select Committee on 
Intelligence; and (2) one motion to recommit with or without instructions.
    Sec. 6.  The Committee on Appropriations may, at any time before 5 p.m. on 
Tuesday, May 27, 2014, file privileged reports to accompany measures making 
appropriations for the fiscal year ending September 30, 2015.
            Attest:

                                                                          Clerk.
