
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 4536 Introduced in House (IH)]

113th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                H. R. 4536

 To improve energy savings by the Department of Defense, and for other 
                               purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                             April 30, 2014

   Mr. Peters of California introduced the following bill; which was 
  referred to the Committee on Armed Services, and in addition to the 
   Committee on Energy and Commerce, for a period to be subsequently 
   determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of such 
 provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
 To improve energy savings by the Department of Defense, and for other 
                               purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Department of Defense Energy 
Security Act of 2014''.

SEC. 2. ENERGY SAVINGS PERFORMANCE CONTRACTS.

    (a) Agency Payments.--Section 801(a)(2)(B) of the National Energy 
Conservation Policy Act (42 U.S.C. 8287(a)(2)(B)) is amended in the 
first sentence--
            (1) by striking ``both utilities'' and inserting 
        ``utilities, entities that supply, deliver, and transport 
        fuel,''; and
            (2) by inserting ``or fuel supply, delivery, or transport'' 
        after ``for utilities''.
    (b) Nonbuilding Applications.--Section 801(a)(2) of the National 
Energy Conservation Policy Act (42 U.S.C. 8287(a)(2)) is amended by 
adding at the end the following:
                    ``(H) Nonbuilding applications.--A Federal agency 
                may enter into an energy savings performance contract 
                under this title for the purpose of reducing the costs 
                of fuel supply, delivery, or transport for nonbuilding 
                applications, including secondary savings.''.
    (c) Definitions.--Section 804 of the National Energy Conservation 
Policy Act (42 U.S.C. 8287c) is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (2)(A)--
                    (A) in the matter preceding clause (i)--
                            (i) by striking ``or wastewater treatment'' 
                        and inserting ``wastewater treatment, or fuel 
                        supply, delivery, or transport''; and
                            (ii) by inserting ``or nonbuilding 
                        applications'' after ``federally owned 
                        facilities'';
                    (B) in clause (ii), by striking ``or'' after the 
                semicolon at the end;
                    (C) in clause (iii), by inserting ``or'' after the 
                semicolon at the end; and
                    (D) by adding at the end the following:
                            ``(iv) the improved efficiency of fuel use 
                        in nonbuilding applications.'';
            (2) in the first sentence of paragraph (3), by inserting 
        ``or for the purpose of reducing the cost of fuel supply, 
        delivery, or transport for nonbuilding applications'' before 
        the period at the end; and
            (3) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(5) Nonbuilding application.--The term `nonbuilding 
        application' means--
                    ``(A) any class of vehicles, devices, or equipment 
                that--
                            ``(i) is transportable under the power of 
                        the applicable vehicle, device, or equipment by 
                        land, sea, or air; and
                            ``(ii) consumes energy from any fuel source 
                        for the purpose of--
                                    ``(I) that transportation; or
                                    ``(II) maintaining a controlled 
                                environment within the vehicle, device, 
                                or equipment; and
                    ``(B) any federally owned equipment used to 
                generate electricity or transport water.
            ``(6) Secondary savings.--
                    ``(A) In general.--The term `secondary savings' 
                means additional energy or cost savings that are a 
                direct consequence of the energy savings that result 
                from the energy efficiency improvements that were 
                financed and implemented pursuant to an energy savings 
                performance contract.
                    ``(B) Inclusions.--The term `secondary savings' 
                includes--
                            ``(i) energy and cost savings that result 
                        from a reduction in the need for fuel delivery 
                        and logistical support;
                            ``(ii) personnel cost savings and 
                        environmental benefits; and
                            ``(iii) in the case of electric generation 
                        equipment, the benefits of increased efficiency 
                        in the production of electricity, including 
                        revenues received by the Federal Government 
                        from the sale of electricity from the 
                        production.''.

SEC. 3. AUTHORIZATION FOR RESEARCH TO IMPROVE MILITARY VEHICLE 
              TECHNOLOGY TO INCREASE FUEL ECONOMY OR REDUCE FUEL 
              CONSUMPTION OF MILITARY VEHICLES USED IN COMBAT.

    (a) Research Authorized.--The Secretary of Defense, acting through 
the Assistant Secretary of Defense for Research and Engineering and in 
collaboration with the Secretary of the Army and the Secretary of the 
Navy, may carry out research to improve military vehicle technology to 
increase fuel economy or reduce fuel consumption of military vehicles 
used in combat.
    (b) Previous Successes.--The Secretary of Defense shall ensure that 
research carried out under subsection (a) takes into account the 
successes of, and lessons learned during, the development of the Fuel 
Efficient Ground Vehicle Alpha and Bravo programs to identify, assess, 
develop, demonstrate, and prototype technologies that support 
increasing fuel economy and decreasing fuel consumption of light 
tactical vehicles, while balancing survivability.

SEC. 4. REQUIREMENT TO ESTABLISH REPOSITORY FOR OPERATIONAL ENERGY-
              RELATED RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT EFFORTS OF DEPARTMENT OF 
              DEFENSE.

    (a) Repository Required.--Not later than December 31, 2015, the 
Secretary of Defense, acting through the Assistant Secretary of Defense 
for Research and Engineering and in collaboration with the Assistant 
Secretary of Defense for Operational Energy Plans and Programs and the 
Secretaries of the military departments, shall establish a centralized 
repository for all operational energy-related research and development 
efforts of the Department of Defense, including with respect to the 
inception, operational, and complete phases of such efforts.
    (b) Internet Access.--The Secretary of Defense shall ensure that 
the repository required by subsection (a) is accessible through an 
Internet website of the Department of Defense and by all employees of 
the Department and members of the Armed Forces whom the Secretary 
determines appropriate, including all program managers involved in such 
research and development efforts, to enable improved collaboration 
between military departments on research and development efforts 
described in subsection (a), sharing of best practices and lessons 
learned relating to such efforts, and reduce redundancy in such 
efforts.

SEC. 5. EXECUTIVE AGENT FOR WARRIOR POWER.

    Not later than September 31, 2014, the Secretary of Defense shall 
establish a Department of Defense executive agent for warrior power to 
align and advance efforts across the military services to measure and 
manage the research, development, testing, evaluation, procurement, and 
fielding of man-portable tactical power generation systems to power 
tactical communications equipment, weapons systems, and other troop 
equipment.

SEC. 6. SECURE ENERGY INNOVATION PROGRAM.

    (a) Establishment.--The Secretary of Defense shall establish a 
program to develop and support projects designed to foster secure and 
reliable sources of energy for military installations, including 
incorporation of advanced energy metering, renewable energy, energy 
storage, and redundant power systems.
    (b) Metrics.--The Secretary of Defense shall develop metrics for 
assessing the costs and benefits associated with secure energy projects 
proposed or implemented as part of the program established under 
subsection (a). The metrics shall take into account financial and 
operational costs associated with sustained losses of power resulting 
from natural disasters or attacks that damage electrical grids serving 
military installations.

SEC. 7. AUTHORITY TO USE ENERGY SAVINGS INVESTMENT FUND FOR ENERGY 
              MANAGEMENT INITIATIVES.

    Section 2919(b)(2) of title 10, United States Code, is amended by 
striking ``, to the extent provided for in an appropriations Act,''.

SEC. 8. ESTABLISHMENT OF DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE ALTERNATIVE FUELED 
              VEHICLE INFRASTRUCTURE FUND.

    (a) Establishment of Fund.--There is established in the Treasury a 
fund to be known as the ``Department of Defense Alternative Fuel 
Vehicle Infrastructure Fund'' (in this section referred to as the 
``Fund'').
    (b) Deposits.--The Fund shall consist of the following:
            (1) Amounts appropriated to the Fund.
            (2) Amounts earned through investment under subsection (c).
            (3) Any other amounts made available to the Fund by law.
    (c) Investments.--The Secretary shall invest any part of the Fund 
that the Secretary decides is not required to meet current expenses. 
Each investment shall be made in an interest-bearing obligation of the 
United States Government, or an obligation that has its principal and 
interest guaranteed by the Government, that the Secretary decides has a 
maturity suitable for the Fund.
    (d) Use of Funds.--Amounts in the Fund shall be available to the 
Secretary, acting through the Under Secretary of Defense for 
Acquisition, Training, and Logistics, to install, operate, and maintain 
alternative fuel dispensing stations for use by alternative fueled 
vehicles of the Department of Defense and other infrastructure 
necessary to fuel alternative fueled vehicles of the Department.
    (e) Private Use.--The Secretary may make alternative fuel dispensed 
through alternative fuel dispensing stations of the Department 
available to employees of the Department and members of the Armed 
Forces for private use.
    (f) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Alternative fuel.--The term ``alternative fuel'' has 
        the meaning given such term in section 32901 of title 49, 
        United States Code.
            (2) Alternative fueled vehicle.--The term ``alternative 
        fueled vehicle'' means a vehicle that operates on alternative 
        fuel.
                                 <all>
