
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H. Res. 376 Introduced in House (IH)]

113th CONGRESS
  1st Session
H. RES. 376

Providing for the consideration of the bill (H.R. 233) to amend chapter 
 31 of title 31, United States Code, to provide for an orderly process 
                by which the debt ceiling is increased.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                            October 10, 2013

Mr. Honda submitted the following resolution; which was referred to the 
                           Committee on Rules

_______________________________________________________________________

                               RESOLUTION


 
Providing for the consideration of the bill (H.R. 233) to amend chapter 
 31 of title 31, United States Code, to provide for an orderly process 
                by which the debt ceiling is increased.

    Resolved, That immediately upon adoption of this resolution, the 
House shall proceed to the consideration in the House of the bill (H.R. 
233) to amend chapter 31 of title 31, United States Code, to provide 
for an orderly process by which the debt ceiling is increased. All 
points of order against consideration of the bill are waived. The bill 
shall be considered as read. All points of order against provisions in 
the bill are waived. The previous question shall be considered as 
ordered on the bill and on any amendment thereto to final passage 
without intervening motion except: (1) one hour of debate equally 
divided and controlled by the chair and ranking minority member of the 
Committee on Ways and Means; (2) a proper amendment in the nature of a 
substitute consistent with the bill (S. 1569, the ``Default Prevention 
Act of 2013'') to ensure the complete and timely payment of the 
obligations of the United States Government until December 31, 2014, if 
offered by Representative Honda of California or his designee, which 
shall be in order without intervention of any point of order except for 
those arising under clause 7 of rule XVI, shall be considered as read, 
and shall be separately debatable for one hour equally divided and 
controlled by the proponent and an opponent; and (3) one motion to 
recommit with or without instructions.
    Sec. 2.  Clause 1(c) of rule XIX shall not apply to the 
consideration of H.R. 233 as provided for in the first section of this 
resolution.
                                 <all>
