
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 3522 Received in Senate (RDS)]

113th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                H. R. 3522


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                           September 15, 2014

                                Received

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 AN ACT


 
  To authorize health insurance issuers to continue to offer for sale 
current group health insurance coverage in satisfaction of the minimum 
    essential health insurance coverage requirement, and for other 
                               purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Employee Health Care Protection Act 
of 2014''.

SEC. 2. IF YOU LIKE YOUR GROUP HEALTH INSURANCE PLAN, YOU CAN KEEP IT.

    (a) In General.--Notwithstanding any provision of the Patient 
Protection and Affordable Care Act (including any amendment made by 
such Act or by the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 
2010), a health insurance issuer that has in effect health insurance 
coverage in the group market on any date during 2013 may after such 
date offer such coverage for sale through December 31, 2018, in such 
market outside of an Exchange established under section 1311 or 1321 of 
such Act (42 U.S.C. 18031, 18041). A group health plan shall not be 
treated as not complying with the requirements of such Act (or the 
amendments made by such Acts) insofar as it provides health benefits 
through health insurance coverage that is permitted under the previous 
sentence.
    (b) Treatment as Grandfathered Health Plan in Satisfaction of 
Minimum Essential Coverage.--Health insurance coverage described in 
subsection (a) shall be treated as a grandfathered health plan for 
purposes of the amendment made by section 1501(b) of the Patient 
Protection and Affordable Care Act.
    (c) Construction.--Nothing in this section shall be construed as 
affecting the authority of States with respect to the regulation of 
health insurance coverage in the group market.

            Passed the House of Representatives September 11, 2014.

            Attest:

                                                 KAREN L. HAAS,

                                                                 Clerk.
