
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.J. Res. 73 Placed on Calendar Senate (PCS)]

                                                       Calendar No. 205
113th CONGRESS
  1st Session
H. J. RES. 73


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                            October 3, 2013

Received; read the first time, read the second time, and placed on the 
           calendar pursuant to the order of October 2, 2013

_______________________________________________________________________

                            JOINT RESOLUTION


 
Making continuing appropriations for the National Institutes of Health 
             for fiscal year 2014, and for other purposes.

    Resolved by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United 
States of America in Congress assembled, That the following sums are 
hereby appropriated, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise 
appropriated, and out of applicable corporate or other revenues, 
receipts, and funds, for the National Institutes of Health for fiscal 
year 2014, and for other purposes, namely:
    Sec. 101. (a) Such amounts as may be necessary, at a rate for 
operations as provided in the Full-Year Continuing Appropriations Act, 
2013 (division F of Public Law 113-6) and under the authority and 
conditions provided in such Act, for continuing projects or activities 
(including the costs of direct loans and loan guarantees) that are not 
otherwise specifically provided for in this joint resolution, that were 
conducted in fiscal year 2013, and for which appropriations, funds, or 
other authority were made available by such Act under the heading 
``Department of Health and Human Services--National Institutes of 
Health''.
    (b) The rate for operations provided by subsection (a) for each 
account shall be calculated to reflect the full amount of any reduction 
required in fiscal year 2013 pursuant to--
            (1) any provision of division G of the Consolidated and 
        Further Continuing Appropriations Act, 2013 (Public Law 113-6), 
        including section 3004; and
            (2) the Presidential sequestration order dated March 1, 
        2013, except as attributable to budget authority made available 
        by the Disaster Relief Appropriations Act, 2013 (Public Law 
        113-2).
    Sec. 102.  Appropriations made by section 101 shall be available to 
the extent and in the manner that would be provided by the pertinent 
appropriations Act.
    Sec. 103.  Unless otherwise provided for in this joint resolution 
or in the applicable appropriations Act for fiscal year 2014, 
appropriations and funds made available and authority granted pursuant 
to this joint resolution shall be available until whichever of the 
following first occurs: (1) the enactment into law of an appropriation 
for any project or activity provided for in this joint resolution; (2) 
the enactment into law of the applicable appropriations Act for fiscal 
year 2014 without any provision for such project or activity; or (3) 
December 15, 2013.
    Sec. 104.  Expenditures made pursuant to this joint resolution 
shall be charged to the applicable appropriation, fund, or 
authorization whenever a bill in which such applicable appropriation, 
fund, or authorization is contained is enacted into law.
    Sec. 105.  This joint resolution shall be implemented so that only 
the most limited funding action of that permitted in the joint 
resolution shall be taken in order to provide for continuation of 
projects and activities.
    Sec. 106.  Amounts made available under section 101 for civilian 
personnel compensation and benefits in each department and agency may 
be apportioned up to the rate for operations necessary to avoid 
furloughs within such department or agency, consistent with the 
applicable appropriations Act for fiscal year 2013, except that such 
authority provided under this section shall not be used until after the 
department or agency has taken all necessary actions to reduce or defer 
non-personnel-related administrative expenses.
    Sec. 107.  It is the sense of Congress that this joint resolution 
may also be referred to as the ``Research for Lifesaving Cures Act''.
     This joint resolution may be cited as the ``National Institutes of 
Health Continuing Appropriations Resolution, 2014''.

            Passed the House of Representatives October 2, 2013.

            Attest:

                                                 KAREN L. HAAS,

                                                                 Clerk.




                                                       Calendar No. 205

113th CONGRESS

  1st Session

                             H. J. RES. 73

_______________________________________________________________________

                            JOINT RESOLUTION

Making continuing appropriations for the National Institutes of Health 
             for fiscal year 2014, and for other purposes.

_______________________________________________________________________

                            October 3, 2013

Received; read the first time, read the second time, and placed on the 
           calendar pursuant to the order of October 2, 2013
