
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 1411 Referred in Senate (RFS)]

113th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                H. R. 1411


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                             July 23, 2013

   Received; read twice and referred to the Committee on Energy and 
                           Natural Resources

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 AN ACT


 
  To include the Point Arena-Stornetta Public Lands in the California 
     Coastal National Monument as a part of the National Landscape 
              Conservation System, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE; DEFINITIONS.

    (a) Short Title.--This Act may be cited as the ``California Coastal 
National Monument Expansion Act of 2013''.
    (b) Definitions.--In this Act:
            (1) Map.--The term ``map'' means the map created by the 
        Bureau of Land Management, entitled ``California Coastal 
        National Monument Addition'' and dated September 15, 2012.
            (2) Monument.--The term ``Monument'' means the California 
        Coastal National Monument established by Presidential 
        Proclamation 7264.
            (3) Point arena-stornetta public lands.--The term ``Point 
        Arena-Stornetta Public Lands'' means the Federal land 
        comprising approximately 1,255 acres in Mendocino County, 
        California, as generally depicted on the map.
            (4) Presidential proclamation 7264.--The term 
        ``Presidential Proclamation 7264'' means Presidential 
        Proclamation Number 7264, dated January 11, 2000 (65 Fed. Reg. 
        2821).
            (5) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary 
        of the Interior.

SEC. 2. PURPOSE.

    The purpose of this Act is to protect, conserve, and enhance for 
the benefit and enjoyment of present and future generations the unique 
and nationally important historical, natural, cultural, scientific, 
educational, scenic, economic and recreational values of the Point 
Arena-Stornetta Public Lands, while allowing certain recreational, 
research and traditional ecomomic activities or uses, such as grazing, 
to continue.

SEC. 3. EXPANSION OF CALIFORNIA COASTAL NATIONAL MONUMENT.

    (a) In General.--The boundary of the Monument established by 
Presidential Proclamation 7264 is expanded to include the Federal land 
shown on the map.
    (b) Map and Legal Description.--
            (1) In general.--As soon as practicable after the date of 
        enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall file with the 
        Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the Senate and the 
        Committee on Natural Resources of the House of Representatives 
        a map and boundary description of land added to the Monument by 
        this Act.
            (2) Force and effect.--The map and boundary description 
        filed under paragraph (1) shall have the same force and effect 
        as if included in this Act, except that the Secretary may 
        correct any minor errors in the map and boundary descriptions.
            (3) Availability of map and boundary description.--The map 
        and boundary description filed under paragraph (1) shall be on 
        file and available for public inspection in appropriate offices 
        of the Bureau of Land Management.

SEC. 4. ADMINISTRATION.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary shall manage the land added to the 
Monument by this Act--
            (1) as a part of the Monument; and
            (2) in accordance with Presidential Proclamation 7264, 
        except that--
                    (A) traditional economic activities and existing 
                uses, such as grazing and the maintenance of existing 
                structures that are used for grazing, shall not be 
                restricted; and
                    (B) lands and interests in land within the proposed 
                land addition not owned by the United States shall not 
                be part of the monument and the future acquisition of 
                those lands and interests in lands by the United States 
                may occur only through donation or exchange with the 
                written consent of the landowner.
    (b) Management Plan.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 2 years after the date of 
        enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall finalize an 
        amendment to the Monument management plan for the long-term 
        protection and management of the land added to the Monument by 
        this Act.
            (2) Requirements.--The plan amendment shall--
                    (A) be developed with an opportunity for full 
                public participation; and
                    (B) describe the appropriate uses and management of 
                the land consistent with this Act.
    (c) Motorized and Mechanized Transport.--Except as needed for 
emergency or authorized administrative purposes, the use of motorized 
and mechanized vehicles in the Monument shall be permitted only on 
roads and trails designated for that use.
    (d) Incorporation of Land and Interests.--
            (1) Authority.--The Secretary may acquire non-Federal land 
        or interests in land within or adjacent to the land added to 
        the Monument by this Act only through exchange, or donation 
        with the written consent of the landowner, and such non-Federal 
        land shall not be included within the boundaries of the 
        Monument absent written consent of the landowner.
            (2) Management.--Any land or interests in land within or 
        adjacent to the land added to the Monument by this Act acquired 
        by the United States after the date of enactment of this Act 
        shall be added to and administered as part of the Monument.
            (3) Access to private property.--The addition of lands 
        under this Act to the Monument may not result in a lack of or 
        restricted access by motorized vehicle to any non-Federal lands 
        within the Monument.
    (e) Overflights.--Nothing in this Act--
            (1) restricts or precludes overflights, including low-level 
        overflights or military, commercial, and general aviation 
        overflights that can be seen or heard within the land added to 
        the Monument by this Act;
            (2) restricts or precludes the designation or creation of 
        new units of special use airspace or the establishment of 
        military flight training routes over the land added to the 
        Monument by this Act; or
            (3) modifies regulations governing low-level overflights 
        above the adjacent Gulf of the Farallones National Marine 
        Sanctuary.
    (f) Law Enforcement.--Nothing in this Act effects the law 
enforcement authorities of the Department of Homeland Security.
    (g) Native American Uses.--Nothing in this Act enlarges, 
diminishes, or modifies the rights of any Indian tribe or Indian 
religious community.
    (h) Buffer Zones.--
            (1) In general.--The expansion of the Monument is not 
        intended to lead to the establishment of protective perimeters 
        or buffer zones around the land included in the Monument by 
        this Act.
            (2) Activities outside the monument.--The fact that 
        activities outside the Monument can be seen or heard within the 
        land added to the Monument by this Act shall not, of itself, 
        preclude those activities or uses up to the boundary of the 
        Monument.
    (i) Grazing.--Nothing in this Act affects the grazing of livestock 
and the maintenance of existing structures that are used for grazing 
within the Point Arena-Stornetta Public Lands or the Monument.
    (j) National Landscape Conservation System.--The Secretary shall 
manage the Monument as part of the National Landscape Conservation 
System.

            Passed the House of Representatives July 22, 2013.

            Attest:

                                                 KAREN L. HAAS,

                                                                 Clerk.
