
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H. Res. 385 Engrossed in House (EH)]

H. Res. 385

                In the House of Representatives, U. S.,

                                                      October 23, 2013.
    Resolved, That at any time after the adoption of this resolution the Speaker 
may, pursuant to clause 2(b) of rule XVIII, declare the House resolved into the 
Committee of the Whole House on the state of the Union for consideration of the 
bill (H.R. 3080) to provide for improvements to the rivers and harbors of the 
United States, to provide for the conservation and development of water and 
related resources, and for other purposes. The first reading of the bill shall 
be dispensed with. All points of order against consideration of the bill are 
waived. General debate shall be confined to the bill and shall not exceed one 
hour equally divided and controlled by the chair and ranking minority member of 
the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure. After general debate the 
bill shall be considered for amendment under the five-minute rule.
    Sec. 2. (a) In lieu of the amendment in the nature of a substitute 
recommended by the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure now printed in 
the bill, it shall be in order to consider as an original bill for the purpose 
of amendment under the five-minute rule an amendment in the nature of a 
substitute consisting of the text of Rules Committee Print 113-24. That 
amendment in the nature of a substitute shall be considered as read. All points 
of order against that amendment in the nature of a substitute are waived.
    (b) No amendment to the amendment in the nature of a substitute made in 
order as original text shall be in order except those printed in the report of 
the Committee on Rules accompanying this resolution and amendments en bloc 
described in section 3 of this resolution.
    (c) Each amendment printed in the report of the Committee on Rules shall be 
considered only in the order printed in the report, may be offered only by a 
Member designated in the report, shall be considered as read, shall be debatable 
for the time specified in the report equally divided and controlled by the 
proponent and an opponent, shall not be subject to amendment, and shall not be 
subject to a demand for division of the question in the House or in the 
Committee of the Whole.
    (d) All points of order against amendments printed in the report of the 
Committee on Rules or amendments en bloc described in section 3 of this 
resolution are waived.
    Sec. 3.  It shall be in order at any time for the chair of the Committee on 
Transportation and Infrastructure or his designee to offer amendments en bloc 
consisting of amendments printed in the report of the Committee on Rules 
accompanying this resolution not earlier disposed of. Amendments en bloc offered 
pursuant to this section shall be considered as read, shall be debatable for 10 
minutes equally divided and controlled by the chair and ranking minority member 
of the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure or their designees, shall 
not be subject to amendment, and shall not be subject to a demand for division 
of the question in the House or in the Committee of the Whole. The original 
proponent of an amendment included in such amendments en bloc may insert a 
statement in the Congressional Record immediately before the disposition of the 
amendments en bloc.
    Sec. 4.  At the conclusion of consideration of the bill for amendment the 
Committee shall rise and report the bill to the House with such amendments as 
may have been adopted. Any Member may demand a separate vote in the House on any 
amendment adopted in the Committee of the Whole to the bill or to the amendment 
in the nature of a substitute made in order as original text. The previous 
question shall be considered as ordered on the bill and amendments thereto to 
final passage without intervening motion except one motion to recommit with or 
without instructions.
            Attest:

                                                                          Clerk.
