
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 3582 Introduced in House (IH)]

113th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                H. R. 3582

  To establish a Water Infrastructure Investment Trust Fund, and for 
                            other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                           November 21, 2013

   Mr. Blumenauer (for himself, Mr. Hanna, Mr. Petri, Mr. Duncan of 
 Tennessee, Mr. Whitfield, Mr. Moran, Mr. Bishop of New York, and Ms. 
   Edwards) introduced the following bill; which was referred to the 
Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, and in addition to the 
 Committees on Ways and Means and Energy and Commerce, for a period to 
      be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
consideration of such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the 
                          committee concerned

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
  To establish a Water Infrastructure Investment Trust Fund, and for 
                            other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Water Trust Fund Act of 2013''.

SEC. 2. ESTABLISHMENT AND FUNDING OF WATER INFRASTRUCTURE INVESTMENT 
              TRUST FUND.

    (a) Water Infrastructure Investment Trust Fund.--
            (1) In general.--Subchapter A of chapter 98 of the Internal 
        Revenue Code of 1986 (relating to establishment of trust funds) 
        is amended by adding at the end the following new section:

``SEC. 9512. WATER INFRASTRUCTURE INVESTMENT TRUST FUND.

    ``(a) Creation of Trust Fund.--There is established in the Treasury 
of the United States a trust fund to be known as the `Water 
Infrastructure Investment Trust Fund', consisting of such amounts as 
may be appropriated or credited to such fund as provided in this 
section or section 9602(b).
    ``(b) Transfers to Trust Fund.--There are hereby appropriated to 
the Water Infrastructure Investment Trust Fund amounts equivalent to 
the fees received in the Treasury before January 1, 2019, under section 
2(b) of the Water Infrastructure Investment Act of 2013.
    ``(c) Expenditures.--Except as provided by subsection (d), amounts 
in the Water Infrastructure Investment Trust Fund shall be available, 
without further appropriation, as follows:
            ``(1) 85 percent of the amounts shall be available to the 
        Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency for making 
        capitalization grants under section 601 of the Federal Water 
        Pollution Control Act (33 U.S.C. 1377).
            ``(2) 15 percent of the amounts shall be available to the 
        Secretary of the Treasury for carrying out the innovative 
        financing program established under section 3 of the Water 
        Infrastructure Investment Act of 2013.
    ``(d) Limitation on Expenditures.--Amounts in the Water 
Infrastructure Investment Trust Fund may not be made available for a 
fiscal year unless the funds appropriated to the Clean Water State 
Revolving Fund through annual capitalization grants is not less than 
the average of the annual amounts provided in capitalization grants 
under section 601 of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act (33 U.S.C. 
1381) for the 5-fiscal-year period immediately preceding such fiscal 
year.''.
            (2) Clerical amendment.--The table of sections for 
        subchapter A of chapter 98 of such Code is amended by adding at 
        the end the following new item:

``Sec. 9512. Water Infrastructure Investment Trust Fund.''.
    (b) Voluntary Labeling System.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary of the Treasury, in 
        consultation with the Administrator of the Food and Drug 
        Administration, manufacturers, producers, and importers, shall 
        develop and implement a program under which the Secretary 
        provides a label designed in consultation with manufacturers, 
        producers, and importers suitable for placement on products to 
        inform consumers that the manufacturer, producer, or importer 
        of the product, and other stakeholders, participates in the 
        Water Infrastructure Investment Trust Fund and is contributing 
        to America's clean water.
            (2) Fee.--The Secretary shall provide a label for a fee of 
        three cents per unit. Amounts received by the Secretary shall 
        be deposited in the general fund of the Treasury.
    (c) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this section shall 
apply to taxable years beginning after the date of the enactment of 
this Act.

SEC. 3. ESTABLISHMENT OF INNOVATIVE FINANCING PROGRAM.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary of the Treasury shall establish an 
innovative financing program to make financial assistance available for 
projects eligible under section 603(c) of the Federal Water Pollution 
Control Act (33 U.S.C. 1383(c)).
    (b) Use of TIFIA Program as Model.--The Secretary shall model the 
program after the Transportation Infrastructure Finance and Innovation 
Act of 1998 (TIFIA) program established in chapter 6 of title 23, 
United States Code.
    (c) Funding.--The Secretary shall carry out this section using 
funds made available for that purpose out of the Water Infrastructure 
Investment Trust Fund.
                                 <all>
