
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 3680 Introduced in House (IH)]

113th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                H. R. 3680

 To require the Secretary of the Treasury to mint coins in recognition 
                  of the fight against breast cancer.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                            December 9, 2013

   Mrs. Carolyn B. Maloney of New York (for herself and Mr. Schock) 
 introduced the following bill; which was referred to the Committee on 
                           Financial Services

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
 To require the Secretary of the Treasury to mint coins in recognition 
                  of the fight against breast cancer.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Breast Cancer Awareness 
Commemorative Coin Act''.

SEC. 2. FINDINGS.

    The Congress finds the following:
            (1) Breast cancer is the most common cancer among American 
        women, except for skin cancers. Today, about 1 in 8, or 12 
        percent of, women in the United States will develop invasive 
        breast cancer during their lifetime. This is an increase from 1 
        in 11, or 9 percent of, women in 1975.
            (2) Breast cancer is the second leading cause of cancer 
        death in women. The chance of dying from breast cancer is about 
        1 in 36. Thanks to earlier detection, increased awareness, and 
        improved treatment, death rates from breast cancer have 
        decreased since about 1989.
            (3) There is a strong interest among the American public to 
        do more to tackle this disease. The National Cancer Institute 
        estimates $16.5 billion is spent in the United States each year 
        on breast cancer treatment.
            (4) Finding a cure for breast cancer is a goal of the 
        United States Government.
            (5) The National Institutes of Health dedicated $800 
        million for breast cancer research in Fiscal Year 2012. In 
        Fiscal Year 2012, the Department of Defense's Breast Cancer 
        Research Program received $120 million. In total, the U.S. is 
        projected to spend $925 million on breast cancer research in 
        Fiscal Year 2013.
            (6) While the Federal Government remains the largest funder 
        of breast cancer research in the United States, in 2012, the 
        National Cancer Institute reduced funding by almost $30 million 
        and the Department of Defense Breast Cancer Research Program 
        grants decreased more than 22 percent from 2010 funding levels.
            (7) Additional private sector support for breast cancer 
        research will help us find a cure for breast cancer even 
        faster.
            (8) It is estimated that in the United States 232,340 women 
        will be diagnosed with and 39,620 women will die of cancer of 
        the breast in 2013. This means that every 13 minutes a woman 
        dies of breast cancer in the United States.
            (9) However, due to disease type and lack of adequate care, 
        Black women have the highest death rates of all racial and 
        ethnic groups and are 40 percent more likely to die of breast 
        cancer than White women.
            (10) Breast cancer used to be considered a disease of aging 
        but recent trends show that more aggressive forms of the 
        disease have been increasingly diagnosed in younger women.
            (11) Breast cancer is the most frequently diagnosed cancer 
        among nearly every racial and ethnic group, including African-
        American, American Indian/Alaska Native, Asian/Pacific Islander 
        and Hispanic/Latina women.
            (12) Clinical advances, resulting from research, have led 
        to increased survival from breast cancer. Since 1990, death 
        rates from breast cancer have dropped over 30 percent.
            (13) Among men in the United States it is estimated that 
        there will be 2,240 new cases of invasive breast cancer and 410 
        breast cancer deaths in 2013.
            (14) At this time there are more than 2.9 million breast 
        cancer survivors in the United States.
            (15) It is estimated that breast cancer costs $12.5 billion 
        in lost productivity. Such productivity losses will increase 
        with projected growth rate and aging of the U.S. population if 
        cancer mortality rates stay constant in the future.
            (16) There is a better chance of survival and there are 
        more treatment options with early stage detection through 
        mammograms and clinical breast exams.
            (17) Breast cancer is the most common cancer in women 
        worldwide, with an estimated 1.6 million new cases of breast 
        cancer among women worldwide in 2010.
            (18) Breast Cancer Research Foundation (BCRF) is considered 
        one of the most efficient research charities.
            (19) Of every dollar donated to BCRF, $0.91 goes to 
        research and awareness programs--88 cents towards research and 
        3 cents towards awareness.
            (20) Founded in 1993, the BCRF has raised more than $450 
        million to fund research aimed at achieving prevention of 
        breast cancer and curing those with the disease. For 2013-2014, 
        BCRF awarded $45 million in grants to support the work of more 
        than 200 researchers at major medical institutions across six 
        continents and 12 countries.
            (21) Susan G. Komen for the Cure includes funded research 
        in 48 of the 50 States and community services in 49 of the 50 
        States. The organization has also supported programming in more 
        than 30 countries.
            (22) Over the past 5 years, more than 80 cents of every 
        dollar spent by Susan G. Komen has gone directly to its mission 
        to save lives and end breast cancer by empowering people, 
        ensuring quality care for all and energizing science to find 
        the cures.
            (23) Since its inception in 1982, Susan G. Komen has 
        invested more than $2 billion on its mission of saving lives 
        and ending breast cancer by empowering people, ensuring quality 
        care for all and energizing science to find the cures, 
        including more than $790 million in research funding.
            (24) Today, the BCRF and Susan G. Komen continue their work 
        to advance research and support programs for patients and their 
        families.

SEC. 3. COIN SPECIFICATIONS.

    (a) $1 Silver Coins.--The Secretary of the Treasury (hereafter in 
this Act referred to as the ``Secretary'') shall mint and issue not 
more than 500,000 $1 coins, which shall--
            (1) weigh 26.73 grams;
            (2) have a diameter of 1.500 inches; and
            (3) contain 90 percent silver and 10 percent copper.
    (b) Legal Tender.--The coins minted under this Act shall be legal 
tender, as provided in section 5103 of title 31, United States Code.
    (c) Numismatic Items.--For purposes of sections 5134 and 5136 of 
title 31, United States Code, all coins minted under this Act shall be 
considered to be numismatic items.

SEC. 4. DESIGN OF COINS.

    (a) Design Requirements.--
            (1) In general.--The design of the coins minted under this 
        Act shall be emblematic of the fight against breast cancer.
            (2) Designation and inscriptions.--On each coin minted 
        under this Act there shall be--
                    (A) a designation of the face value of the coin;
                    (B) an inscription of the year ``2018''; and
                    (C) inscriptions of the words ``Liberty'', ``In God 
                We Trust'', ``United States of America'', and ``E 
                Pluribus Unum''.
    (b) Selection.--The design for the coins minted under this Act 
shall be selected by the Secretary based on the winning design from a 
juried, compensated design competition described under subsection (c).
    (c) Design Competition.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary shall hold a competition and 
        provide compensation for its winner to design the obverse and 
        reverse of the coins minted under this Act. The competition 
        shall be judged by an expert jury chaired by the Secretary and 
        consisting of 3 members from the Citizens Coinage Advisory 
        Committee who shall be elected by such Committee and 3 members 
        from the Commission of Fine Arts who shall be elected by such 
        Commission.
            (2) Proposals.--As part of the competition described in 
        this subsection, the Secretary may accept proposals from 
        artists, engravers of the United States Mint, and members of 
        the general public.
            (3) Accompanying designs; preference for physical 
        designs.--The Secretary shall encourage 3-dimensional designs 
        to be submitted as part of the proposals, and the jury shall 
        give a preference for proposals that are accompanied by a 3-
        dimensional physical design instead of, or in addition to, an 
        electronic design.
            (4) Compensation.--The Secretary shall determine 
        compensation for the winning design under this subsection, 
        which shall be not less than $5,000. The Secretary shall take 
        into account this compensation amount when determining the sale 
        price described in section 6(a).

SEC. 5. ISSUANCE OF COINS.

    (a) Quality of Coins.--Coins minted under this Act shall be issued 
in uncirculated and proof qualities.
    (b) Period for Issuance.--The Secretary may issue coins minted 
under this Act only during the 1-year period beginning on January 1, 
2018.

SEC. 6. SALE OF COINS.

    (a) Sale Price.--The coins issued under this Act shall be sold by 
the Secretary at a price equal to the sum of--
            (1) the face value of the coins;
            (2) the surcharge provided in section 7(a) with respect to 
        the coins; and
            (3) the cost of designing and issuing the coins (including 
        labor, materials, dies, use of machinery, overhead expenses, 
        marketing, and shipping).
    (b) Bulk Sales.--The Secretary shall make bulk sales of the coins 
issued under this Act at a reasonable discount.
    (c) Prepaid Orders.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary shall accept prepaid orders 
        for the coins minted under this Act before the issuance of such 
        coins.
            (2) Discount.--Sale prices with respect to prepaid orders 
        under paragraph (1) shall be at a reasonable discount.

SEC. 7. SURCHARGES.

    (a) In General.--All sales of coins minted under this Act shall 
include a surcharge of $10 per coin.
    (b) Distribution.--Subject to section 5134(f) of title 31, United 
States Code, all surcharges which are received by the Secretary from 
the sale of coins issued under this Act shall be promptly paid by the 
Secretary as follows:
            (1) \1/2\ to the Susan G. Komen for the Cure, Dallas, 
        Texas, for the purpose of furthering research funded by the 
        organization.
            (2) \1/2\ to the Breast Cancer Research Foundation, New 
        York, New York, for the purpose of furthering research funded 
        by the Foundation.
    (c) Audits.--The surcharge recipients under subsection (b) shall be 
subject to the audit requirements of section 5134(f)(2) of title 31, 
United States Code, with regard to the amounts received under that 
subsection.
    (d) Limitations.--Notwithstanding subsection (a), no surcharge may 
be included with respect to the issuance under this Act of any coin 
during a calendar year if, as of the time of such issuance, the 
issuance of such coin would result in the number of commemorative coin 
programs issued during such year to exceed the annual 2 commemorative 
coin program issuance limitation under section 5112(m)(1) of title 31, 
United States Code (as in effect on the date of the enactment of this 
Act). The Secretary of the Treasury may issue guidance to carry out 
this subsection.

SEC. 8. FINANCIAL ASSURANCES.

    The Secretary shall take such actions as may be necessary to ensure 
that--
            (1) minting and issuing coins under this Act will not 
        result in any net cost to the United States Government; and
            (2) no funds, including applicable surcharges, shall be 
        disbursed to any recipient designated in section 7 until the 
        total cost of designing and issuing all of the coins authorized 
        by this Act (including labor, materials, dies, use of 
        machinery, overhead expenses, marketing, and shipping) is 
        recovered by the United States Treasury, consistent with 
        sections 5112(m) and 5134(f) of title 31, United States Code.
                                 <all>
