
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.J. Res. 91 Enrolled Bill (ENR)]

        H.J.Res.91

                     One Hundred Thirteenth Congress

                                 of the

                        United States of America


                          AT THE FIRST SESSION

          Begun and held at the City of Washington on Thursday,
           the third day of January, two thousand and thirteen


                            Joint Resolution


 
   Making continuing appropriations for death gratuities and related 
survivor benefits for survivors of deceased military service members of 
 the Department of Defense for fiscal year 2014, and for other purposes.

    Resolved by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United 
States of America in Congress assembled, That the following sums are 
hereby appropriated, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise 
appropriated, for death gratuities and related benefits for survivors 
of deceased military service members of the Department of Defense for 
fiscal year 2014, and for other purposes, namely:
    Sec. 101. (a) Such amounts as may be necessary, at a rate for 
operations as provided for fiscal year 2013 in the Department of 
Defense Appropriations Act, 2013 (division C of Public Law 113-6) and 
under the authority and conditions provided in such Act, for 
``Operation and Maintenance'' and ``Military Personnel'' accounts for 
continuing the following projects and activities that are not otherwise 
specifically provided for in this joint resolution or the Pay Our 
Military Act (Public Law 113-39), and for which appropriations, funds, 
or other authority were made available by the Department of Defense 
Appropriations Act, 2013:
        (1) The payment of a death gratuity under sections 1475-1477 
    and 1489 of title 10, United States Code.
        (2) The payment or reimbursement for funeral and burial 
    expenses authorized under sections 1481 and 1482 of title 10, 
    United States Code.
        (3) The payment or reimbursement of authorized funeral travel 
    and travel related to the dignified transfer of remains and unit 
    memorial services under section 481f of title 37, United States 
    Code.
        (4) The temporary continuation of a basic allowance of housing 
    for dependents of members dying on active duty, as authorized by 
    section 403(l) of title 37, United States Code.
    (b) The rate for operations provided by subsection (a) for each 
program or activity shall be calculated to reflect the full amount of 
any reduction required in fiscal year 2013 pursuant to--
        (1) any provision of division G of the Consolidated and Further 
    Continuing Appropriations Act, 2013 (Public Law 113-6), including 
    section 3004; and
        (2) the Presidential sequestration order dated March 1, 2013, 
    except as attributable to budget authority made available by the 
    Disaster Relief Appropriations Act, 2013 (Public Law 113-2).
    Sec. 102.  Appropriations made by section 101 shall be available to 
the extent and in the manner that would be provided by the pertinent 
appropriations Act.
    Sec. 103.  Unless otherwise provided for in this joint resolution 
or in the applicable appropriations Act for fiscal year 2014, 
appropriations and funds made available and authority granted pursuant 
to this joint resolution shall be available until whichever of the 
following first occurs: (1) the enactment into law of an appropriation 
for any project or activity provided for in this joint resolution; (2) 
the enactment into law of the applicable appropriations Act for fiscal 
year 2014 without any provision for such project or activity; or (3) 
December 15, 2013.
    Sec. 104.  Expenditures made pursuant to this joint resolution 
shall be charged to the applicable appropriation, fund, or 
authorization whenever a bill in which such applicable appropriation, 
fund, or authorization is contained is enacted into law.
    Sec. 105.  This joint resolution shall be implemented so that only 
the most limited funding action of that permitted in the joint 
resolution shall be taken in order to provide for continuation of 
projects and activities.
    Sec. 106.  It is the sense of Congress that this joint resolution 
may also be referred to as the ``Honoring the Families of Fallen 
Soldiers Act''.
     This joint resolution may be cited as the ``Department of Defense 
Survivor Benefits Continuing Appropriations Resolution, 2014''.

                               Speaker of the House of Representatives.

                            Vice President of the United States and    
                                               President of the Senate.
