
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[S. 2673 Engrossed in Senate (ES)]

113th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                S. 2673

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 AN ACT


 
  To enhance the strategic partnership between the United States and 
                                Israel.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``United States-Israel Strategic 
Partnership Act of 2014''.

SEC. 2. FINDINGS.

    Congress makes the following findings:
            (1) The people and the Governments of the United States and 
        of Israel share a deep and unbreakable bond, forged by over 60 
        years of shared interests and shared values.
            (2) Today, the people and Governments of the United States 
        and of Israel are facing a dynamic and rapidly changing 
        security environment in the Middle East and North Africa, 
        necessitating deeper cooperation on a range of defense, 
        security, and intelligence matters.
            (3) From Gaza, Hamas continues to deny Israel's right to 
        exist and persists in firing rockets indiscriminately at 
        population centers in Israel.
            (4) Hezbollah--with support from Iran--continues to 
        stockpile rockets and may be seeking to exploit the tragic and 
        volatile security situation within Syria.
            (5) The Government of Iran continues to pose a grave threat 
        to the region and the world at large with its reckless pursuit 
        of nuclear weapons.
            (6) Given these challenges, it is imperative that the 
        United States continues to deepen cooperation with allies like 
        Israel in pursuit of shared policy objectives.

SEC. 3. STATEMENT OF POLICY.

    It is the policy of the United States--
            (1) to reaffirm the unwavering support of the people and 
        the Government of the United States for the security of Israel 
        as a Jewish state;
            (2) to reaffirm the principles and objectives enshrined in 
        the United States-Israel Enhanced Security Cooperation Act of 
        2012 (Public Law 112-150) and ensure its implementation to the 
        fullest extent;
            (3) to reaffirm the importance of the 2007 United States-
        Israel Memorandum of Understanding on United States assistance 
        to Israel and the semi-annual Strategic Dialogue between the 
        United States and Israel;
            (4) to pursue every opportunity to deepen cooperation with 
        Israel on a range of critical issues including defense, 
        homeland security, energy, and cybersecurity;
            (5) to continue to provide Israel with robust security 
        assistance, including for the procurement of the Iron Dome 
        Missile Defense System; and
            (6) to support the Government of Israel in its ongoing 
        efforts to reach a negotiated political settlement with the 
        Palestinian people that results in two states living side-by-
        side in peace and security.

SEC. 4. SENSE OF CONGRESS ON ISRAEL AS A MAJOR STRATEGIC PARTNER.

    It is the sense of Congress that Israel is a major strategic 
partner of the United States.

SEC. 5. EXTENSION OF WAR RESERVES STOCKPILE AUTHORITY.

    (a) Department of Defense Appropriations Act, 2005.--Section 
12001(d) of the Department of Defense Appropriations Act, 2005 (Public 
Law 108-287; 118 Stat. 1011) is amended by striking ``more than 10 
years after'' and inserting ``more than 11 years after''.
    (b) Foreign Assistance Act of 1961.--Section 514(b)(2)(A) of the 
Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 2321h(b)(2)(A)) is amended by 
striking ``and 2014'' and inserting ``, 2014, and 2015''.

SEC. 6. ELIGIBILITY OF ISRAEL FOR THE STRATEGIC TRADE AUTHORIZATION 
              EXCEPTION TO CERTAIN EXPORT CONTROL LICENSING 
              REQUIREMENTS.

    (a) Findings.--Congress finds that Israel--
            (1) has adopted high standards in the field of export 
        controls;
            (2) has declared its unilateral adherence to the Missile 
        Technology Control Regime, the Australia Group, and the Nuclear 
        Suppliers Group; and
            (3) is a party to--
                    (A) the Convention on Prohibitions or Restrictions 
                on the Use of Certain Conventional Weapons which may be 
                Deemed to be Excessively Injurious or to Have 
                Indiscriminate Effects, signed at Geneva October 10, 
                1980;
                    (B) the Protocol for the Prohibition of the Use in 
                War of Asphyxiating, Poisonous or Other Gases, and of 
                Bacteriological Methods of Warfare, signed at Geneva 
                June 17, 1925; and
                    (C) the Convention on the Physical Protection of 
                Nuclear Material, adopted at Vienna on October 26, 
                1979.
    (b) Eligibility for Strategic Trade Authorization Exception.--The 
President, consistent with the commitments of the United States under 
international arrangements, shall take steps so that Israel may be 
included in the list of countries eligible for the strategic trade 
authorization exception under section 740.20(c)(1) of title 15, Code of 
Federal Regulations, to the requirement for a license for the export, 
reexport, or in-country transfer of an item subject to controls under 
the Export Administration Regulations.

SEC. 7. UNITED STATES-ISRAEL COOPERATION ON ENERGY, WATER, HOMELAND 
              SECURITY, AGRICULTURE, AND ALTERNATIVE FUEL TECHNOLOGIES.

    (a) In General.--The President is authorized, subject to existing 
law--
            (1) to undertake activities in cooperation with Israel; and
            (2) to provide assistance promoting cooperation in the 
        fields of energy, water, agriculture, and alternative fuel 
        technologies.
    (b) Requirements.--In carrying out subsection (a), the President is 
authorized, subject to existing requirements of law and any applicable 
agreements or understandings between the United States and Israel--
            (1) to share and exchange with Israel research, technology, 
        intelligence, information, equipment, and personnel, including 
        through sales, leases, or exchanges in kind, that the President 
        determines will advance the national security interests of the 
        United States and are consistent with the Strategic Dialogue 
        and pertinent provisions of law; and
            (2) to enhance scientific cooperation between Israel and 
        the United States.
    (c) Cooperative Research Pilot Programs.--The Secretary of Homeland 
Security, acting through the Director of the Homeland Security Advanced 
Research Projects Agency and with the concurrence of the Secretary of 
State, is authorized, subject to existing law, to enter into 
cooperative research pilot programs with Israel to enhance Israel's 
capabilities in--
            (1) border, maritime, and aviation security;
            (2) explosives detection; and
            (3) emergency services.

SEC. 8. REPORT ON INCREASED UNITED STATES-ISRAEL COOPERATION ON 
              CYBERSECURITY.

    Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this 
Act, the President shall submit to Congress a report, in a classified 
format or including a classified annex, as appropriate, on the 
feasibility and advisability of expanding United States-Israeli 
cooperation on cyber issues, including sharing and advancing 
technologies related to the prevention of cybercrimes.

SEC. 9. STATEMENT OF POLICY REGARDING THE VISA WAIVER PROGRAM.

    It shall be the policy of the United States to include Israel in 
the list of countries that participate in the visa waiver program under 
section 217 of the Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1187) when 
Israel satisfies, and as long as Israel continues to satisfy, the 
requirements for inclusion in such program specified in such section.

SEC. 10. STATUS OF IMPLEMENTATION OF SECTION 4 OF THE UNITED STATES-
              ISRAEL ENHANCED SECURITY COOPERATION ACT OF 2012.

    Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this 
Act, the President shall, to the extent practicable and in an 
appropriate manner, provide an update to the Committee on Foreign 
Relations of the Senate, the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House 
of Representatives, the Committee on Armed Services of the Senate, and 
the Committee on Armed Services of the House of Representatives on 
current and future efforts undertaken by the President to fulfill the 
objectives of section 4 of the United States-Israel Enhanced Security 
Cooperation Act (22 U.S.C. 8603).

SEC. 11. IMPROVED REPORTING ON ENHANCING ISRAEL'S QUALITATIVE MILITARY 
              EDGE AND SECURITY POSTURE.

    (a) Biennial Assessment Reevaluations.--Section 201(c) of the Naval 
Vessel Transfer Act of 2008 (22 U.S.C. 2776 note) is amended by adding 
at the end the following:
            ``(3) Biennial updates.--Two years after the date on which 
        each quadrennial report is transmitted to Congress, the 
        President shall--
                    ``(A) reevaluate the assessment required under 
                subsection (a); and
                    ``(B) inform and consult with the appropriate 
                congressional committees on the results of the 
                reevaluation conducted pursuant to subparagraph (A).''.
    (b) Certification Requirements for Major Defense Equipment.--
Section 36(h) of the Arms Export Control Act (22 U.S.C. 2776(h)) is 
amended--
            (1) by redesignating paragraph (2) as paragraph (3); and
            (2) by inserting after paragraph (1) the following:
            ``(2) Requirements with respect to determination for major 
        defense equipment.--A determination under paragraph (1) 
        relating to the sale or export of major defense equipment shall 
        include--
                    ``(A) a detailed explanation of Israel's capacity 
                to address the improved capabilities provided by such 
                sale or export;
                    ``(B) a detailed evaluation of--
                            ``(i) how such sale or export alters the 
                        strategic and tactical balance in the region, 
                        including relative capabilities; and
                            ``(ii) Israel's capacity to respond to the 
                        improved regional capabilities provided by such 
                        sale or export;
                    ``(C) an identification of any specific new 
                capacity, capabilities, or training that Israel may 
                require to address the regional or country-specific 
                capabilities provided by such sale or export; and
                    ``(D) a description of any additional United States 
                security assurances to Israel made, or requested to be 
                made, in connection with, or as a result of, such sale 
                or export.''.

SEC. 12. UNITED STATES-ISRAEL ENERGY COOPERATION.

    (a) Findings.--Section 917(a) of the Energy Independence and 
Security Act of 2007 (42 U.S.C. 17337(a)) is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (1), by striking ``renewable'' and 
        inserting ``covered'';
            (2) in paragraph (4)--
                    (A) by striking ``possible many'' and inserting 
                ``possible--
                    ``(A) many''; and
                    (B) by adding at the end the following: ``and
                    ``(B) significant contributions to the development 
                of renewable energy and energy efficiency through the 
                established programs of the United States-Israel 
                Binational Industrial Research and Development 
                Foundation and the United States-Israel Binational 
                Science Foundation;'';
            (3) in paragraph (6)--
                    (A) by striking ``renewable'' and inserting 
                ``covered''; and
                    (B) by striking ``and'' at the end;
            (4) in paragraph (7)--
                    (A) by striking ``renewable'' and inserting 
                ``covered''; and
                    (B) by striking the period at the end and inserting 
                a semicolon; and
            (5) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(8) United States-Israel energy cooperation and the 
        development of natural resources by Israel are in the strategic 
        interest of the United States;
            ``(9) Israel is a strategic partner of the United States in 
        water technology;
            ``(10) the United States can play a role in assisting 
        Israel with regional safety and security issues;
            ``(11) the National Science Foundation of the United 
        States, to the extent consistent with the National Science 
        Foundation's mission, should collaborate with the Israel 
        Science Foundation and the United States-Israel Binational 
        Science Foundation;
            ``(12) the United States and Israel should strive to 
        develop more robust academic cooperation in--
                    ``(A) energy innovation technology and engineering;
                    ``(B) water science;
                    ``(C) technology transfer; and
                    ``(D) analysis of emerging geopolitical 
                implications, crises and threats from foreign natural 
                resource and energy acquisitions, and the development 
                of domestic resources as a response;
            ``(13) the United States supports the goals of the 
        Alternative Fuels Administration of Israel with respect to 
        expanding the use of alternative fuels;
            ``(14) the United States strongly urges open dialogue and 
        continued mechanisms for regular engagement and encourages 
        further cooperation between applicable departments, agencies, 
        ministries, institutions of higher education, and the private 
        sector of the United States and Israel on energy security 
        issues, including--
                    ``(A) identifying policy priorities associated with 
                the development of natural resources of Israel;
                    ``(B) discussing and sharing best practices to 
                secure cyber energy infrastructure and other energy 
                security matters;
                    ``(C) leveraging natural gas to positively impact 
                regional stability;
                    ``(D) issues relating to the energy-water nexus, 
                including improving energy efficiency and the overall 
                performance of water technologies through research and 
                development in water desalination, wastewater treatment 
                and reclamation, water treatment in gas and oil 
                production processes, and other water treatment 
                refiners;
                    ``(E) technical and environmental management of 
                deep-water exploration and production;
                    ``(F) emergency response and coastal protection and 
                restoration;
                    ``(G) academic outreach and engagement;
                    ``(H) private sector and business development 
                engagement;
                    ``(I) regulatory consultations;
                    ``(J) leveraging alternative transportation fuels 
                and technologies; and
                    ``(K) any other areas determined appropriate by the 
                United States and Israel;
            ``(15) the United States--
                    ``(A) acknowledges the achievements and importance 
                of the Binational Industrial Research and Development 
                Foundation and the United States-Israel Binational 
                Science Foundation; and
                    ``(B) supports continued multiyear funding to 
                ensure the continuity of the programs of the 
                foundations specified in subparagraph (A); and
            ``(16) the United States and Israel have a shared interest 
        in addressing immediate, near-term, and long-term energy, 
        energy poverty, energy independence, and environmental 
        challenges facing the United States and Israel, 
        respectively.''.
    (b) Grant Program.--Section 917(b) of the Energy Independence and 
Security Act of 2007 (42 U.S.C. 17337(b)(1)) is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (1), by striking ``renewable energy or 
        energy efficiency'' and inserting ``covered energy'';
            (2) in paragraph (2)--
                    (A) in subparagraph (F), by striking ``and'' at the 
                end;
                    (B) in subparagraph (G), by striking the period at 
                the end and inserting a semicolon; and
                    (C) by adding at the end the following:
                    ``(H) natural gas energy, including conventional 
                and unconventional natural gas technologies and other 
                associated technologies, and natural gas projects 
                conducted by or in conjunction with the United States-
                Israel Binational Science Foundation and the United 
                States-Israel Binational Industrial Research and 
                Development Foundation; and
                    ``(I) improvement of energy efficiency and the 
                overall performance of water technologies through 
                research and development in water desalination, 
                wastewater treatment and reclamation, and other water 
                treatment refiners.''; and
            (3) in paragraph (3)(A), by striking ``energy efficiency or 
        renewable'' and inserting ``covered''.
    (c) International Partnerships; Regional Energy Cooperation.--
            (1) International partnerships.--Section 917 of the Energy 
        Independence and Security Act of 2007 (42 U.S.C. 17337) is 
        amended--
                    (A) by striking subsection (d);
                    (B) by redesignating subsection (c) as subsection 
                (e);
                    (C) by inserting after subsection (b) the 
                following:
    ``(c) International Partnerships.--
            ``(1) In general.--The Secretary, subject to the 
        availability of appropriations, may enter into cooperative 
        agreements supporting and enhancing dialogue and planning 
        involving international partnerships between the Department, 
        including National Laboratories of the Department, and the 
        Government of Israel and its ministries, offices, and 
        institutions.
            ``(2) Federal share.--The Secretary may not pay more than 
        50 percent of Federal share of the costs of implementing 
        cooperative agreements entered into pursuant to paragraph (1).
            ``(3) Annual reports.--If the Secretary enters into 
        agreements authorized by paragraph (1), the Secretary shall 
        submit an annual report to the Committee on Energy and Natural 
        Resources of the Senate, the Committee on Foreign Relations of 
        the Senate, the Committee on Appropriations of the Senate, the 
        Committee on Energy and Commerce of the House of 
        Representatives, the Committee on Science, Space, and 
        Technology of the House of Representatives, the Committee on 
        Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives, and the 
        Committee on Appropriations of the House of Representatives 
        that describes--
                    ``(A) actions taken to implement such agreements; 
                and
                    ``(B) any projects undertaken pursuant to such 
                agreements.
    ``(d) United States-Israel Energy Center.--The Secretary may 
establish a joint United States-Israel Energy Center in the United 
States leveraging the experience, knowledge, and expertise of 
institutions of higher education and entities in the private sector, 
among others, in offshore energy development to further dialogue and 
collaboration to develop more robust academic cooperation in energy 
innovation technology and engineering, water science, technology 
transfer, and analysis of emerging geopolitical implications, crises 
and threats from foreign natural resource and energy acquisitions, and 
the development of domestic resources as a response.''; and
                    (D) in subsection (e), as redesignated, by striking 
                ``the date that is 7 years after the date of enactment 
                of this Act'' and inserting ``September 30, 2024''.
            (2) Constructive regional energy cooperation.--The 
        Secretary of State shall continue the ongoing diplomacy efforts 
        of the Secretary of State in--
                    (A) engaging and supporting the energy security of 
                Israel; and
                    (B) promoting constructive regional energy 
                cooperation in the Eastern Mediterranean.

            Passed the Senate September 18, 2014.

            Attest:

                                                             Secretary.
113th CONGRESS

  2d Session

                                S. 2673

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 AN ACT

  To enhance the strategic partnership between the United States and 
                                Israel.
