
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 4487 Reported in Senate (RS)]

                                                       Calendar No. 436
113th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                H. R. 4487

                          [Report No. 113-196]


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                              May 5, 2014

  Received; read twice and referred to the Committee on Appropriations

                             June 19, 2014

              Reported by Mrs. Shaheen, with an amendment
 [Strike out all after the enacting clause and insert the part printed 
                               in italic]

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 AN ACT


 
 Making appropriations for the Legislative Branch for the fiscal year 
           ending September 30, 2015, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled, <DELETED>That the 
following sums are appropriated, out of any money in the Treasury not 
otherwise appropriated, for the Legislative Branch for the fiscal year 
ending September 30, 2015, and for other purposes, namely:

             <DELETED>TITLE I--LEGISLATIVE BRANCH</DELETED>

              <DELETED>HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES</DELETED>

                <DELETED>Salaries and Expenses</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For salaries and expenses of the House of Representatives, 
$1,180,736,000, as follows:</DELETED>

              <DELETED>House Leadership Offices</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For salaries and expenses, as authorized by law, 
$22,278,891, including: Office of the Speaker, $6,645,417, including 
$25,000 for official expenses of the Speaker; Office of the Majority 
Floor Leader, $2,180,048, including $10,000 for official expenses of 
the Majority Leader; Office of the Minority Floor Leader, $7,114,471, 
including $10,000 for official expenses of the Minority Leader; Office 
of the Majority Whip, including the Chief Deputy Majority Whip, 
$1,886,632, including $5,000 for official expenses of the Majority 
Whip; Office of the Minority Whip, including the Chief Deputy Minority 
Whip, $1,459,639, including $5,000 for official expenses of the 
Minority Whip; Republican Conference, $1,505,426; Democratic Caucus, 
$1,487,258:  Provided, That such amount for salaries and expenses shall 
remain available from January 3, 2015 until January 2, 2016.</DELETED>

        <DELETED>Members' Representational Allowances</DELETED>

 <DELETED>Including Members' Clerk Hire, Official Expenses of Members, 
                      and Official Mail</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For Members' representational allowances, including 
Members' clerk hire, official expenses, and official mail, 
$554,317,732.</DELETED>

                 <DELETED>Committee Employees</DELETED>

       <DELETED>Standing Committees, Special and Select</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For salaries and expenses of standing committees, special 
and select, authorized by House resolutions, $123,903,173:  Provided, 
That such amount shall remain available for such salaries and expenses 
until December 31, 2016, except that $2,300,000 of such amount shall 
remain available until expended for committee room upgrading.</DELETED>

             <DELETED>Committee on Appropriations</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For salaries and expenses of the Committee on 
Appropriations, $23,271,004, including studies and examinations of 
executive agencies and temporary personal services for such committee, 
to be expended in accordance with section 202(b) of the Legislative 
Reorganization Act of 1946 and to be available for reimbursement to 
agencies for services performed:  Provided, That such amount shall 
remain available for such salaries and expenses until December 31, 
2016.</DELETED>

          <DELETED>Salaries, Officers and Employees</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For compensation and expenses of officers and employees, 
as authorized by law, $171,344,864, including: for salaries and 
expenses of the Office of the Clerk, including the positions of the 
Chaplain and the Historian, and including not more than $25,000 for 
official representative and reception expenses, of which not more than 
$20,000 is for the Family Room and not more than $2,000 is for the 
Office of the Chaplain, $24,009,473; for salaries and expenses of the 
Office of the Sergeant at Arms, including the position of 
Superintendent of Garages and the Office of Emergency Management, and 
including not more than $3,000 for official representation and 
reception expenses, $11,926,729 of which $4,344,000 shall remain 
available until expended; for salaries and expenses of the Office of 
the Chief Administrative Officer including not more than $3,000 for 
official representation and reception expenses, $113,100,000, of which 
$4,000,000 shall remain available until expended; for salaries and 
expenses of the Office of the Inspector General, $4,741,809; for 
salaries and expenses of the Office of General Counsel, $1,340,987; for 
salaries and expenses of the Office of the Parliamentarian, including 
the Parliamentarian, $2,000 for preparing the Digest of Rules, and not 
more than $1,000 for official representation and reception expenses, 
$1,952,249; for salaries and expenses of the Office of the Law Revision 
Counsel of the House, $4,087,587, of which $1,000,000 shall remain 
available until expended for the completion of the House Modernization 
Initiative; for salaries and expenses of the Office of the Legislative 
Counsel of the House, $8,892,975, of which $540,000 shall remain 
available until expended for the completion of the House Modernization 
Initiative; for salaries and expenses of the Office of 
Interparliamentary Affairs, $814,069; for other authorized employees, 
$478,986.</DELETED>

               <DELETED>Allowances and Expenses</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For allowances and expenses as authorized by House 
resolution or law, $285,620,336, including: supplies, materials, 
administrative costs and Federal tort claims, $4,152,789; official mail 
for committees, leadership offices, and administrative offices of the 
House, $190,486; Government contributions for health, retirement, 
Social Security, and other applicable employee benefits, $256,635,776, 
to remain available until March 31, 2016; Business Continuity and 
Disaster Recovery, $16,217,008 of which $5,000,000 shall remain 
available until expended; transition activities for new members and 
staff, $3,737,000, to remain available until expended; Wounded Warrior 
Program $2,500,000, to remain available until expended; Office of 
Congressional Ethics, $1,467,030; and miscellaneous items including 
purchase, exchange, maintenance, repair and operation of House motor 
vehicles, interparliamentary receptions, and gratuities to heirs of 
deceased employees of the House, $720,247.</DELETED>

              <DELETED>Administrative Provisions</DELETED>

<DELETED>    Sec. 101. (a) Requiring Amounts Remaining in Members' 
Representational Allowances To Be Used for Deficit Reduction or To 
Reduce the Federal Debt.--Notwithstanding any other provision of law, 
any amounts appropriated under this Act for ``HOUSE OF 
REPRESENTATIVES--Salaries and Expenses--Members' Representational 
Allowances'' shall be available only for fiscal year 2015. Any amount 
remaining after all payments are made under such allowances for fiscal 
year 2015 shall be deposited in the Treasury and used for deficit 
reduction (or, if there is no Federal budget deficit after all such 
payments have been made, for reducing the Federal debt, in such manner 
as the Secretary of the Treasury considers appropriate).</DELETED>
<DELETED>    (b) Regulations.--The Committee on House Administration of 
the House of Representatives shall have authority to prescribe 
regulations to carry out this section.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    (c) Definition.--As used in this section, the term 
``Member of the House of Representatives'' means a Representative in, 
or a Delegate or Resident Commissioner to, the Congress.</DELETED>

          <DELETED>delivery of bills and resolutions</DELETED>

<DELETED>    Sec. 102.  None of the funds made available in this Act 
may be used to deliver a printed copy of a bill, joint resolution, or 
resolution to the office of a Member of the House of Representatives 
(including a Delegate or Resident Commissioner to the Congress) unless 
the Member requests a copy.</DELETED>

          <DELETED>delivery of congressional record</DELETED>

<DELETED>    Sec. 103.  None of the funds made available by this Act 
may be used to deliver a printed copy of any version of the 
Congressional Record to the office of a Member of the House of 
Representatives (including a Delegate or Resident Commissioner to the 
Congress).</DELETED>

  <DELETED>limitation on amount available to lease vehicles</DELETED>

<DELETED>    Sec. 104.  None of the funds made available in this Act 
may be used by the Chief Administrative Officer of the House of 
Representatives to make any payments from any Members' Representational 
Allowance for the leasing of a vehicle, excluding mobile district 
offices, in an aggregate amount that exceeds $1,000 for the vehicle in 
any month.</DELETED>

 <DELETED>limitation on printed copies of u.s. code to house</DELETED>

<DELETED>    Sec. 105.  None of the funds made available by this Act 
may be used to provide an aggregate number of more than 50 printed 
copies of any edition of the United States Code to all offices of the 
House of Representatives.</DELETED>

                     <DELETED>JOINT ITEMS</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For Joint Committees, as follows:</DELETED>

              <DELETED>Joint Economic Committee</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For salaries and expenses of the Joint Economic Committee, 
$4,203,000, to be disbursed by the Secretary of the Senate.</DELETED>

             <DELETED>Joint Committee on Taxation</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For salaries and expenses of the Joint Committee on 
Taxation, $10,004,000, to be disbursed by the Chief Administrative 
Officer of the House of Representatives.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    For other joint items, as follows:</DELETED>

          <DELETED>Office of the Attending Physician</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For medical supplies, equipment, and contingent expenses 
of the emergency rooms, and for the Attending Physician and his 
assistants, including:</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    (1) an allowance of $2,175 per month to the 
        Attending Physician;</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    (2) an allowance of $1,300 per month to the Senior 
        Medical Officer;</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    (3) an allowance of $725 per month each to three 
        medical officers while on duty in the Office of the Attending 
        Physician;</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    (4) an allowance of $725 per month to 2 assistants 
        and $580 per month each not to exceed 11 assistants on the 
        basis heretofore provided for such assistants; and</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    (5) $2,486,000 for reimbursement to the Department 
        of the Navy for expenses incurred for staff and equipment 
        assigned to the Office of the Attending Physician, which shall 
        be advanced and credited to the applicable appropriation or 
        appropriations from which such salaries, allowances, and other 
        expenses are payable and shall be available for all the 
        purposes thereof, $3,371,000, to be disbursed by the Chief 
        Administrative Officer of the House of 
        Representatives.</DELETED>

   <DELETED>Office of Congressional Accessibility Services</DELETED>

                <DELETED>Salaries and Expenses</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For salaries and expenses of the Office of Congressional 
Accessibility Services, $1,387,000, to be disbursed by the Secretary of 
the Senate.</DELETED>

                   <DELETED>CAPITOL POLICE</DELETED>

                      <DELETED>salaries</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For salaries of employees of the Capitol Police, including 
overtime, hazardous duty pay, and Government contributions for health, 
retirement, social security, professional liability insurance, and 
other applicable employee benefits, $286,500,000 of which overtime 
shall not exceed $23,425,000 unless the Committee on Appropriations of 
the House and Senate are notified, to be disbursed by the Chief of the 
Capitol Police or his designee.</DELETED>

                  <DELETED>general expenses</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For necessary expenses of the Capitol Police, including 
motor vehicles, communications and other equipment, security equipment 
and installation, uniforms, weapons, supplies, materials, training, 
medical services, forensic services, stenographic services, personal 
and professional services, the employee assistance program, the awards 
program, postage, communication services, travel advances, relocation 
of instructor and liaison personnel for the Federal Law Enforcement 
Training Center, and not more than $5,000 to be expended on the 
certification of the Chief of the Capitol Police in connection with 
official representation and reception expenses, $61,459,000, to be 
disbursed by the Chief of the Capitol Police or his designee:  
Provided, That, notwithstanding any other provision of law, the cost of 
basic training for the Capitol Police at the Federal Law Enforcement 
Training Center for fiscal year 2015 shall be paid by the Secretary of 
Homeland Security from funds available to the Department of Homeland 
Security.</DELETED>

                <DELETED>OFFICE OF COMPLIANCE</DELETED>

                <DELETED>Salaries and Expenses</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For salaries and expenses of the Office of Compliance, as 
authorized by section 305 of the Congressional Accountability Act of 
1995 (2 U.S.C. 1385), $3,959,000 (increased by $500,000), of which 
$450,000 shall remain available until September 30, 2016:  Provided, 
That not more than $500 may be expended on the certification of the 
Executive Director of the Office of Compliance in connection with 
official representation and reception expenses.</DELETED>

             <DELETED>CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE</DELETED>

                <DELETED>Salaries and Expenses</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For salaries and expenses necessary for operation of the 
Congressional Budget Office, including not more than $6,000 to be 
expended on the certification of the Director of the Congressional 
Budget Office in connection with official representation and reception 
expenses, $45,700,000.</DELETED>

              <DELETED>ARCHITECT OF THE CAPITOL</DELETED>

               <DELETED>General Administration</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For salaries for the Architect of the Capitol, and other 
personal services, at rates of pay provided by law; for surveys and 
studies in connection with activities under the care of the Architect 
of the Capitol; for all necessary expenses for the general and 
administrative support of the operations under the Architect of the 
Capitol including the Botanic Garden; electrical substations of the 
Capitol, Senate and House office buildings, and other facilities under 
the jurisdiction of the Architect of the Capitol; including furnishings 
and office equipment; including not more than $5,000 for official 
reception and representation expenses, to be expended as the Architect 
of the Capitol may approve; for purchase or exchange, maintenance, and 
operation of a passenger motor vehicle, $91,555,000 (reduced by 
$500,000).</DELETED>

                  <DELETED>Capitol Building</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For all necessary expenses for the maintenance, care and 
operation of the Capitol, $53,126,000, of which $28,817,000 shall 
remain available until September 30, 2019.</DELETED>

                   <DELETED>Capitol Grounds</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For all necessary expenses for care and improvement of 
grounds surrounding the Capitol, the Senate and House office buildings, 
and the Capitol Power Plant, $11,993,000, of which $2,000,000 shall 
remain available until September 30, 2019.</DELETED>

               <DELETED>House Office Buildings</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For all necessary expenses for the maintenance, care and 
operation of the House office buildings, $71,622,000, of which 
$7,000,000 shall remain available until September 30, 2019.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    In addition, for a payment to the House Historic Buildings 
Revitalization Trust Fund, $70,000,000, to remain available until 
expended.</DELETED>

                 <DELETED>Capitol Power Plant</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For all necessary expenses for the maintenance, care and 
operation of the Capitol Power Plant; lighting, heating, power 
(including the purchase of electrical energy) and water and sewer 
services for the Capitol, Senate and House office buildings, Library of 
Congress buildings, and the grounds about the same, Botanic Garden, 
Senate garage, and air conditioning refrigeration not supplied from 
plants in any of such buildings; heating the Government Printing Office 
and Washington City Post Office, and heating and chilled water for air 
conditioning for the Supreme Court Building, the Union Station complex, 
the Thurgood Marshall Federal Judiciary Building and the Folger 
Shakespeare Library, expenses for which shall be advanced or reimbursed 
upon request of the Architect of the Capitol and amounts so received 
shall be deposited into the Treasury to the credit of this 
appropriation, $93,152,000, of which $8,686,000 shall remain available 
until September 30, 2019:  Provided, That not more than $9,000,000 of 
the funds credited or to be reimbursed to this appropriation as herein 
provided shall be available for obligation during fiscal year 
2015.</DELETED>

            <DELETED>Library Buildings and Grounds</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For all necessary expenses for the mechanical and 
structural maintenance, care and operation of the Library buildings and 
grounds, $41,733,000, of which $16,542,000 shall remain available until 
September 30, 2019.</DELETED>

   <DELETED>Capitol Police Buildings, Grounds, and Security</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For all necessary expenses for the maintenance, care and 
operation of buildings, grounds and security enhancements of the United 
States Capitol Police, wherever located, the Alternate Computer 
Facility, and AOC security operations, $19,486,000, of which $1,000,000 
shall remain available until September 30, 2019.</DELETED>

                   <DELETED>Botanic Garden</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For all necessary expenses for the maintenance, care and 
operation of the Botanic Garden and the nurseries, buildings, grounds, 
and collections; and purchase and exchange, maintenance, repair, and 
operation of a passenger motor vehicle; all under the direction of the 
Joint Committee on the Library, $15,022,946 (reduced by $3,166,946), of 
which $5,122,946 shall remain available until September 30, 2019:  
Provided, That of the amount made available under this heading, the 
Architect of the Capitol may obligate and expend such sums as may be 
necessary for the maintenance, care and operation of the National 
Garden established under section 307E of the Legislative Branch 
Appropriations Act, 1989 (2 U.S.C. 2146), upon vouchers approved by the 
Architect of the Capitol or a duly authorized designee.</DELETED>

               <DELETED>Capitol Visitor Center</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For all necessary expenses for the operation of the 
Capitol Visitor Center, $20,875,000.</DELETED>

              <DELETED>Administrative Provision</DELETED>

                       <DELETED>scrims</DELETED>

<DELETED>    Sec. 1001.  None of the funds made available by this Act 
may be used for scrims containing photographs of building facades 
during restoration or construction projects performed by the Architect 
of the Capitol.</DELETED>

                 <DELETED>LIBRARY OF CONGRESS</DELETED>

                <DELETED>Salaries and Expenses</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For necessary expenses of the Library of Congress not 
otherwise provided for, including development and maintenance of the 
Library's catalogs; custody and custodial care of the Library 
buildings; special clothing; cleaning, laundering and repair of 
uniforms; preservation of motion pictures in the custody of the 
Library; operation and maintenance of the American Folklife Center in 
the Library; activities under the Civil Rights History Project Act of 
2009; preparation and distribution of catalog records and other 
publications of the Library; hire or purchase of one passenger motor 
vehicle; and expenses of the Library of Congress Trust Fund Board not 
properly chargeable to the income of any trust fund held by the Board, 
$424,057,000, of which not more than $6,000,000 shall be derived from 
collections credited to this appropriation during fiscal year 2015, and 
shall remain available until expended, under the Act of June 28, 1902 
(chapter 1301; 32 Stat. 480; 2 U.S.C. 150) and not more than $350,000 
shall be derived from collections during fiscal year 2015 and shall 
remain available until expended for the development and maintenance of 
an international legal information database and activities related 
thereto:  Provided, That the Library of Congress may not obligate or 
expend any funds derived from collections under the Act of June 28, 
1902, in excess of the amount authorized for obligation or expenditure 
in appropriations Acts:  Provided further, That the total amount 
available for obligation shall be reduced by the amount by which 
collections are less than $6,350,000:  Provided further, That of the 
total amount appropriated, not more than $12,000 may be expended, on 
the certification of the Librarian of Congress, in connection with 
official representation and reception expenses for the Overseas Field 
Offices:  Provided further, That of the total amount appropriated, 
$8,231,000 shall remain available until expended for the digital 
collections and educational curricula program.</DELETED>

                  <DELETED>Copyright Office</DELETED>

                <DELETED>salaries and expenses</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For all necessary expenses of the Copyright Office, 
$54,303,000, of which not more than $27,971,000, to remain available 
until expended, shall be derived from collections credited to this 
appropriation during fiscal year 2015 under section 708(d) of title 17, 
United States Code:  Provided, That the Copyright Office may not 
obligate or expend any funds derived from collections under such 
section, in excess of the amount authorized for obligation or 
expenditure in appropriations Acts:  Provided further, That not more 
than $5,611,000 shall be derived from collections during fiscal year 
2015 under sections 111(d)(2), 119(b)(2), 803(e), 1005, and 1316 of 
such title:  Provided further, That the total amount available for 
obligation shall be reduced by the amount by which collections are less 
than $33,582,000:  Provided further, That not more than $100,000 of the 
amount appropriated is available for the maintenance of an 
``International Copyright Institute'' in the Copyright Office of the 
Library of Congress for the purpose of training nationals of developing 
countries in intellectual property laws and policies:  Provided 
further, That not more than $6,500 may be expended, on the 
certification of the Librarian of Congress, in connection with official 
representation and reception expenses for activities of the 
International Copyright Institute and for copyright delegations, 
visitors, and seminars:  Provided further, That notwithstanding any 
provision of chapter 8 of title 17, United States Code, any amounts 
made available under this heading which are attributable to royalty 
fees and payments received by the Copyright Office pursuant to sections 
111, 119, and chapter 10 of such title may be used for the costs 
incurred in the administration of the Copyright Royalty Judges program, 
with the exception of the costs of salaries and benefits for the 
Copyright Royalty Judges and staff under section 802(e).</DELETED>

           <DELETED>Congressional Research Service</DELETED>

                <DELETED>salaries and expenses</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of 
section 203 of the Legislative Reorganization Act of 1946 (2 U.S.C. 
166) and to revise and extend the Annotated Constitution of the United 
States of America, $106,095,000:  Provided, That no part of such amount 
may be used to pay any salary or expense in connection with any 
publication, or preparation of material therefor (except the Digest of 
Public General Bills), to be issued by the Library of Congress unless 
such publication has obtained prior approval of either the Committee on 
House Administration of the House of Representatives or the Committee 
on Rules and Administration of the Senate.</DELETED>

   <DELETED>Books for the Blind and Physically Handicapped</DELETED>

                <DELETED>salaries and expenses</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For salaries and expenses to carry out the Act of March 3, 
1931 (chapter 400; 46 Stat. 1487; 2 U.S.C. 135a), $50,429,000:  
Provided, That of the total amount appropriated, $650,000 shall be 
available to contract to provide newspapers to blind and physically 
handicapped residents at no cost to the individual.</DELETED>

              <DELETED>Administrative Provision</DELETED>

     <DELETED>reimbursable and revolving fund activities</DELETED>

<DELETED>    Sec. 1101. (a) In General.--For fiscal year 2015, the 
obligational authority of the Library of Congress for the activities 
described in subsection (b) may not exceed $203,058,000.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    (b) Activities.--The activities referred to in subsection 
(a) are reimbursable and revolving fund activities that are funded from 
sources other than appropriations to the Library in appropriations Acts 
for the legislative branch.</DELETED>

             <DELETED>GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE</DELETED>

         <DELETED>Congressional Printing and Binding</DELETED>

            <DELETED>(including transfer of funds)</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For authorized printing and binding for the Congress and 
the distribution of Congressional information in any format; expenses 
necessary for preparing the semimonthly and session index to the 
Congressional Record, as authorized by law (section 902 of title 44, 
United States Code); printing and binding of Government publications 
authorized by law to be distributed to Members of Congress; and 
printing, binding, and distribution of Government publications 
authorized by law to be distributed without charge to the recipient, 
$79,736,000:  Provided, That this appropriation shall not be available 
for paper copies of the permanent edition of the Congressional Record 
for individual Representatives, Resident Commissioners or Delegates 
authorized under section 906 of title 44, United States Code:  Provided 
further, That this appropriation shall be available for the payment of 
obligations incurred under the appropriations for similar purposes for 
preceding fiscal years:  Provided further, That notwithstanding the 2-
year limitation under section 718 of title 44, United States Code, none 
of the funds appropriated or made available under this Act or any other 
Act for printing and binding and related services provided to Congress 
under chapter 7 of title 44, United States Code, may be expended to 
print a document, report, or publication after the 27-month period 
beginning on the date that such document, report, or publication is 
authorized by Congress to be printed, unless Congress reauthorizes such 
printing in accordance with section 718 of title 44, United States 
Code:  Provided further, That any unobligated or unexpended balances in 
this account or accounts for similar purposes for preceding fiscal 
years may be transferred to the Government Printing Office revolving 
fund for carrying out the purposes of this heading, subject to the 
approval of the Committees on Appropriations of the House of 
Representatives and Senate:  Provided further, That notwithstanding 
sections 901, 902, and 906 of title 44, United States Code, this 
appropriation may be used to prepare indexes to the Congressional 
Record on only a monthly and session basis.</DELETED>

        <DELETED>Office of Superintendent of Documents</DELETED>

                <DELETED>salaries and expenses</DELETED>

            <DELETED>(including transfer of funds)</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For expenses of the Office of Superintendent of Documents 
necessary to provide for the cataloging and indexing of Government 
publications and their distribution to the public, Members of Congress, 
other Government agencies, and designated depository and international 
exchange libraries as authorized by law, $31,500,000:  Provided, That 
amounts of not more than $2,000,000 from current year appropriations 
are authorized for producing and disseminating Congressional serial 
sets and other related publications for fiscal years 2013 and 2014 to 
depository and other designated libraries:  Provided further, That any 
unobligated or unexpended balances in this account or accounts for 
similar purposes for preceding fiscal years may be transferred to the 
Government Printing Office revolving fund for carrying out the purposes 
of this heading, subject to the approval of the Committees on 
Appropriations of the House of Representatives and Senate.</DELETED>

      <DELETED>Government Printing Office Revolving Fund</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For payment to the Government Printing Office Revolving 
Fund, $11,348,000, to remain available until expended, for information 
technology development and facilities repair:  Provided, That the 
Government Printing Office is hereby authorized to make such 
expenditures, within the limits of funds available and in accordance 
with law, and to make such contracts and commitments without regard to 
fiscal year limitations as provided by section 9104 of title 31, United 
States Code, as may be necessary in carrying out the programs and 
purposes set forth in the budget for the current fiscal year for the 
Government Printing Office Revolving Fund:  Provided further, That not 
more than $7,500 may be expended on the certification of the Public 
Printer in connection with official representation and reception 
expenses:  Provided further, That the revolving fund shall be available 
for the hire or purchase of not more than 12 passenger motor vehicles:  
Provided further, That expenditures in connection with travel expenses 
of the advisory councils to the Public Printer shall be deemed 
necessary to carry out the provisions of title 44, United States Code:  
Provided further, That the revolving fund shall be available for 
temporary or intermittent services under section 3109(b) of title 5, 
United States Code, but at rates for individuals not more than the 
daily equivalent of the annual rate of basic pay for level V of the 
Executive Schedule under section 5316 of such title:  Provided further, 
That activities financed through the revolving fund may provide 
information in any format:  Provided further, That the revolving fund 
and the funds provided under the headings ``Office of Superintendent of 
Documents'' and ``Salaries and Expenses'' may not be used for 
contracted security services at the Government Printing Office's 
passport facility in the District of Columbia.</DELETED>

          <DELETED>GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABILITY OFFICE</DELETED>

                <DELETED>Salaries and Expenses</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For necessary expenses of the Government Accountability 
Office, including not more than $12,500 to be expended on the 
certification of the Comptroller General of the United States in 
connection with official representation and reception expenses; 
temporary or intermittent services under section 3109(b) of title 5, 
United States Code, but at rates for individuals not more than the 
daily equivalent of the annual rate of basic pay for level IV of the 
Executive Schedule under section 5315 of such title; hire of one 
passenger motor vehicle; advance payments in foreign countries in 
accordance with section 3324 of title 31, United States Code; benefits 
comparable to those payable under sections 901(5), (6), and (8) of the 
Foreign Service Act of 1980 (22 U.S.C. 4081(5), (6), and (8)); and 
under regulations prescribed by the Comptroller General of the United 
States, rental of living quarters in foreign countries, $519,622,000:  
Provided, That, in addition, $23,750,000 of payments received under 
sections 782, 3521, and 9105 of title 31, United States Code, shall be 
available without fiscal year limitation:  Provided further, That this 
appropriation and appropriations for administrative expenses of any 
other department or agency which is a member of the National 
Intergovernmental Audit Forum or a Regional Intergovernmental Audit 
Forum shall be available to finance an appropriate share of either 
Forum's costs as determined by the respective Forum, including 
necessary travel expenses of non-Federal participants:  Provided 
further, That payments hereunder to the Forum may be credited as 
reimbursements to any appropriation from which costs involved are 
initially financed.</DELETED>

              <DELETED>Administrative Provision</DELETED>

             <DELETED>center for audit excellence</DELETED>

<DELETED>    Sec. 1201.  (a) Center for Audit Excellence.--</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    (1) Establishment.--Chapter 7 of title 31, United 
        States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new 
        subchapter:</DELETED>

    <DELETED>``SUBCHAPTER VII--CENTER FOR AUDIT EXCELLENCE</DELETED>

<DELETED>``Sec. 791. Center for audit excellence</DELETED>
<DELETED>    ``(a) Establishment.--The Comptroller General shall 
establish, maintain, and operate a center within the Government 
Accountability Office to be known as the `Center for Audit Excellence' 
(hereafter in this subchapter referred to as the `Center').</DELETED>
<DELETED>    ``(b) Purpose and Activities.--</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    ``(1) In general.--The Center shall build 
        institutional auditing capacity and promote good governance by 
        providing affordable, relevant, and high-quality training, 
        technical assistance, and products and services to qualified 
        personnel and entities of governments (including the Federal 
        government, State and local governments, tribal governments, 
        and governments of foreign nations), international 
        organizations, and other private organizations.</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    ``(2) Determination of qualified personnel and 
        entities.--Personnel and entities shall be considered qualified 
        for purposes of receiving training, technical assistance, and 
        products or services from the Center under paragraph (1) in 
        accordance with such criteria as the Comptroller General may 
        establish and publish.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    ``(c) Fees.--</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    ``(1) Permitting charging of fees.--The 
        Comptroller General may establish, charge, and collect fees (on 
        a reimbursable or advance basis) for the training, technical 
        assistance, and products and services provided by the Center 
        under this subchapter.</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    ``(2) Deposit into separate account.--The 
        Comptroller General shall deposit all fees collected under 
        paragraph (1) into the Center for Audit Excellence Account 
        established under section 792.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    ``(d) Gifts of Property and Services.--The Comptroller 
General may accept and use conditional or non-conditional gifts of 
property (both real and personal) and services (including services of 
guest lecturers) to support the operation of the Center, except that 
the Comptroller General may not accept or use such a gift if the 
Comptroller General determines that the acceptance or use of the gift 
would compromise or appear to compromise the integrity of the 
Government Accountability Office.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    ``(e) Sense of Congress Regarding Personnel.--It is the 
sense of Congress that the Center should be staffed primarily by 
personnel of the Government Accountability Office who are not otherwise 
engaged in carrying out other duties of the Office under this chapter, 
so as to ensure that the operation of the Center will not have a 
negative impact on the ability of the Office to maintain a consistently 
high level of service to Congress.</DELETED>
<DELETED>``Sec. 792. Account</DELETED>
<DELETED>    ``(a) Establishment of Separate Account.--There is 
established in the Treasury as a separate account for the Government 
Accountability Office the `Center for Audit Excellence Account', which 
shall consist of the fees deposited by the Comptroller General under 
section 791(c) and such other amounts as may be appropriated under 
law.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    ``(b) Use of Account.--Amounts in the Center for Audit 
Excellence Account shall be available to the Comptroller General, in 
amounts specified in appropriations Acts and without fiscal year 
limitation, to carry out this subchapter.</DELETED>
<DELETED>``Sec. 793. Authorization of Appropriations</DELETED>
<DELETED>    ``There are authorized to be appropriated such sums as may 
be necessary to carry out this subchapter.''.</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    (2) Clerical amendment.--The table of sections for 
        chapter 7 of title 31, United States Code, is amended by adding 
        at the end the following:</DELETED>

        <DELETED> ``subchapter vii--center for audit excellence

<DELETED>``791. Center for Audit Excellence.
<DELETED>``792. Account.
<DELETED>``793. Authorization of appropriations.''.
<DELETED>    (b) Approval of Business Plan.--The Comptroller General 
may not begin operating the Center for Audit Excellence under 
subchapter VII of chapter 7 of title 31, United States Code (as added 
by subsection (a)) until--</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    (1) the Comptroller General submits a business 
        plan for the Center to the Committees on Appropriations of the 
        House of Representatives and Senate; and</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    (2) each such Committee approves the 
        plan.</DELETED>

       <DELETED>OPEN WORLD LEADERSHIP CENTER TRUST FUND</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For a payment to the Open World Leadership Center Trust 
Fund for financing activities of the Open World Leadership Center under 
section 313 of the Legislative Branch Appropriations Act, 2001 (2 
U.S.C. 1151), $3,420,000.</DELETED>

    <DELETED>JOHN C. STENNIS CENTER FOR PUBLIC SERVICE TRAINING AND 
                         DEVELOPMENT</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For payment to the John C. Stennis Center for Public 
Service Development Trust Fund established under section 116 of the 
John C. Stennis Center for Public Service Training and Development Act 
(2 U.S.C. 1105), $430,000.</DELETED>

            <DELETED>TITLE II--GENERAL PROVISIONS</DELETED>

<DELETED>    Sec. 201.  No part of the funds appropriated in this Act 
shall be used for the maintenance or care of private vehicles, except 
for emergency assistance and cleaning as may be provided under 
regulations relating to parking facilities for the House of 
Representatives issued by the Committee on House Administration and for 
the Senate issued by the Committee on Rules and 
Administration.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 202.  No part of the funds appropriated in this Act 
shall remain available for obligation beyond fiscal year 2015 unless 
expressly so provided in this Act.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 203.  Whenever in this Act any office or position not 
specifically established by the Legislative Pay Act of 1929 (46 Stat. 
32 et seq.) is appropriated for or the rate of compensation or 
designation of any office or position appropriated for is different 
from that specifically established by such Act, the rate of 
compensation and the designation in this Act shall be the permanent law 
with respect thereto:  Provided, That the provisions in this Act for 
the various items of official expenses of Members, officers, and 
committees of the Senate and House of Representatives, and clerk hire 
for Senators and Members of the House of Representatives shall be the 
permanent law with respect thereto.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 204.  The expenditure of any appropriation under this 
Act for any consulting service through procurement contract, under 
section 3109 of title 5, United States Code, shall be limited to those 
contracts where such expenditures are a matter of public record and 
available for public inspection, except where otherwise provided under 
existing law, or under existing Executive order issued under existing 
law.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 205.  Amounts available for administrative expenses 
of any legislative branch entity which participates in the Legislative 
Branch Financial Managers Council (LBFMC) established by charter on 
March 26, 1996, shall be available to finance an appropriate share of 
LBFMC costs as determined by the LBFMC, except that the total LBFMC 
costs to be shared among all participating legislative branch entities 
(in such allocations among the entities as the entities may determine) 
may not exceed $2,000.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 206.  The Architect of the Capitol, in consultation 
with the District of Columbia, is authorized to maintain and improve 
the landscape features, excluding streets, in the irregular shaped 
grassy areas bounded by Washington Avenue, SW on the northeast, Second 
Street, SW on the west, Square 582 on the south, and the beginning of 
the I-395 tunnel on the southeast.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 207.  None of the funds made available in this Act 
may be transferred to any department, agency, or instrumentality of the 
United States Government, except pursuant to a transfer made by, or 
transfer authority provided in, this Act or any other appropriation 
Act.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 208. (a) Except as provided in subsection (b), none 
of the funds made available to the Architect of the Capitol in this Act 
may be used to eliminate or restrict guided tours of the United States 
Capitol which are led by employees and interns of offices of Members of 
Congress and other offices of the House of Representatives and 
Senate.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    (b) At the direction of the Capitol Police Board, or at 
the direction of the Architect of the Capitol with the approval of the 
Capitol Police Board, guided tours of the United States Capitol which 
are led by employees and interns described in subsection (a) may be 
suspended temporarily or otherwise subject to restriction for security 
or related reasons to the same extent as guided tours of the United 
States Capitol which are led by the Architect of the Capitol.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 209.  Notwithstanding any other provision of law, no 
adjustment shall be made under section 610(a) of the Legislative 
Reorganization Act of 1946 (2 U.S.C. 31) (relating to cost of living 
adjustments for Members of Congress) during fiscal year 2015.</DELETED>

             <DELETED>spending reduction account</DELETED>

<DELETED>    Sec. 210. The amount by which the applicable allocation of 
new budget authority made by the Committee on Appropriations of the 
House of Representatives under section 302(b) of the Congressional 
Budget Act of 1974, excluding Senate items, exceeds the amount of 
proposed new budget authority is $0 (increased by 
$3,166,946).</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 211.  None of the funds made available by this Act 
may be used to deliver a printed copy of the report of disbursements 
for the operations of the House of Representatives under section 106 of 
the House of Representatives Administrative Reform Technical 
Corrections Act (2 U.S.C. 5535) to the office of a Member of the House 
of Representatives (including a Delegate or Resident Commissioner to 
the Congress).</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 212.  None of the funds made available by this Act 
may be used to deliver to the office of a Member of the House of 
Representatives (including a Delegate or Resident Commissioner to the 
Congress) a printed copy of the Daily Calendar of the House of 
Representatives which is prepared by the Clerk of the House of 
Representatives.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    This Act may be cited as the ``Legislative Branch 
Appropriations Act, 2015''.</DELETED>
That the following sums are appropriated, out of any money in the 
Treasury not otherwise appropriated, for the Legislative Branch for the 
fiscal year ending September 30, 2015, and for other purposes, namely:

                                TITLE I

                           LEGISLATIVE BRANCH

                                 SENATE

                           expense allowances

    For expense allowances of the Vice President, $18,760; the 
President Pro Tempore of the Senate, $37,520; Majority Leader of the 
Senate, $39,920; Minority Leader of the Senate, $39,920; Majority Whip 
of the Senate, $9,980; Minority Whip of the Senate, $9,980; Chairmen of 
the Majority and Minority Conference Committees, $4,690 for each 
Chairman; and Chairmen of the Majority and Minority Policy Committees, 
$4,690 for each Chairman; in all, $174,840.

    Representation Allowances for the Majority and Minority Leaders

    For representation allowances of the Majority and Minority Leaders 
of the Senate, $14,070 for each such Leader; in all, $28,140.

                    Salaries, Officers and Employees

    For compensation of officers, employees, and others as authorized 
by law, including agency contributions, $177,350,812, which shall be 
paid from this appropriation without regard to the following 
limitations:

                      office of the vice president

    For the Office of the Vice President, $2,417,248.

                  office of the president pro tempore

    For the Office of the President Pro Tempore, $723,466.

              offices of the majority and minority leaders

    For Offices of the Majority and Minority Leaders, $5,255,576.

               offices of the majority and minority whips

    For Offices of the Majority and Minority Whips, $3,359,424.

                      committee on appropriations

    For salaries of the Committee on Appropriations, $14,942,000.

                         conference committees

    For the Conference of the Majority and the Conference of the 
Minority, at rates of compensation to be fixed by the Chairman of each 
such committee, $1,658,000 for each such committee; in all, $3,316,000.

 offices of the secretaries of the conference of the majority and the 
                       conference of the minority

    For Offices of the Secretaries of the Conference of the Majority 
and the Conference of the Minority, $817,402.

                           policy committees

    For salaries of the Majority Policy Committee and the Minority 
Policy Committee, $1,692,905 for each such committee; in all, 
$3,385,810.

                         office of the chaplain

    For Office of the Chaplain, $416,886.

                        office of the secretary

    For Office of the Secretary, $24,684,000.

             office of the sergeant at arms and doorkeeper

    For Office of the Sergeant at Arms and Doorkeeper, $69,000,000.

        offices of the secretaries for the majority and minority

    For Offices of the Secretary for the Majority and the Secretary for 
the Minority, $1,762,000.

               agency contributions and related expenses

    For agency contributions for employee benefits, as authorized by 
law, and related expenses, $47,271,000. 

            Office of the Legislative Counsel of the Senate

    For salaries and expenses of the Office of the Legislative Counsel 
of the Senate, $5,408,500.

                     Office of Senate Legal Counsel

    For salaries and expenses of the Office of Senate Legal Counsel, 
$1,120,000.

Expense Allowances of the Secretary of the Senate, Sergeant at Arms and 
Doorkeeper of the Senate, and Secretaries for the Majority and Minority 
                             of the Senate

    For expense allowances of the Secretary of the Senate, $7,110; 
Sergeant at Arms and Doorkeeper of the Senate, $7,110; Secretary for 
the Majority of the Senate, $7,110; Secretary for the Minority of the 
Senate, $7,110; in all, $28,440.

                   Contingent Expenses of the Senate

                      inquiries and investigations

    For expenses of inquiries and investigations ordered by the Senate, 
or conducted under paragraph 1 of rule XXVI of the Standing Rules of 
the Senate, section 112 of the Supplemental Appropriations and 
Rescission Act, 1980 (Public Law 96-304), and Senate Resolution 281, 
96th Congress, agreed to March 11, 1980, $133,265,000, of which 
$26,650,000 shall remain available until September 30, 2017.

expenses of the united states senate caucus on international narcotics 
                                control

    For expenses of the United States Senate Caucus on International 
Narcotics Control, $508,000.

                        secretary of the senate

    For expenses of the Office of the Secretary of the Senate, 
$6,250,000 of which $4,350,000 shall remain available until September 
30, 2019.

             sergeant at arms and doorkeeper of the senate

    For expenses of the Office of the Sergeant at Arms and Doorkeeper 
of the Senate, $130,300,000, which shall remain available until 
September 30, 2019.

                          miscellaneous items

    For miscellaneous items, $21,178,000, which shall remain available 
until September 30, 2017.

        senators' official personnel and office expense account

    For Senators' Official Personnel and Office Expense Account, 
$390,000,000 of which $19,109,214 shall remain available until 
September 30, 2017.

                          official mail costs

    For expenses necessary for official mail costs of the Senate, 
$300,000.

                       Administrative Provisions

                     senate stationery procurement

    Sec. 1. (a) Sections 65, 66, 67, and 68 of the Revised Statutes (2 
U.S.C. 6569, 6570, 6571) are repealed.
    (b) The fifth paragraph after the paragraph under the side heading 
``For contingent expenses, namely'': under the subheading ``Senate'', 
under the heading ``Legislative'' of the Act of March 3, 1887 (24 Stat. 
596, chapter 392; 2 U.S.C. 6572), is amended by striking ``sections, 
sixty-five, sixty six, sixty-seven, sixty-eight, and sixty-nine,'' and 
inserting ``section 69''.

           eliminate paper filing of senate campaign reports

    Sec. 2.  Section 302(g) of the Federal Election Campaign Act of 
1971 (2 U.S.C. 432(g)) is amended to read as follows:
    ``(g) Filing With the Commission.--All designations, statements, 
and reports required to be filed under this Act shall be filed with the 
Commission.''.

                        HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                         Salaries and Expenses

    For salaries and expenses of the House of Representatives, 
$1,180,736,000, as follows:

                        House Leadership Offices

    For salaries and expenses, as authorized by law, $22,278,891, 
including: Office of the Speaker, $6,645,417, including $25,000 for 
official expenses of the Speaker; Office of the Majority Floor Leader, 
$2,180,048, including $10,000 for official expenses of the Majority 
Leader; Office of the Minority Floor Leader, $7,114,471, including 
$10,000 for official expenses of the Minority Leader; Office of the 
Majority Whip, including the Chief Deputy Majority Whip, $1,886,632, 
including $5,000 for official expenses of the Majority Whip; Office of 
the Minority Whip, including the Chief Deputy Minority Whip, 
$1,459,639, including $5,000 for official expenses of the Minority 
Whip; Republican Conference, $1,505,426; Democratic Caucus, $1,487,258: 
 Provided, That such amount for salaries and expenses shall remain 
available from January 3, 2015 until January 2, 2016.

                  Members' Representational Allowances

   Including Members' Clerk Hire, Official Expenses of Members, and 
                             Official Mail

    For Members' representational allowances, including Members' clerk 
hire, official expenses, and official mail, $554,317,732.

                          Committee Employees

                Standing Committees, Special and Select

    For salaries and expenses of standing committees, special and 
select, authorized by House resolutions, $123,903,173:  Provided, That 
such amount shall remain available for such salaries and expenses until 
December 31, 2016, except that $2,300,000 of such amount shall remain 
available until expended for committee room upgrading.

                      Committee on Appropriations

    For salaries and expenses of the Committee on Appropriations, 
$23,271,004, including studies and examinations of executive agencies 
and temporary personal services for such committee, to be expended in 
accordance with section 202(b) of the Legislative Reorganization Act of 
1946 and to be available for reimbursement to agencies for services 
performed:  Provided, That such amount shall remain available for such 
salaries and expenses until December 31, 2016.

                    Salaries, Officers and Employees

    For compensation and expenses of officers and employees, as 
authorized by law, $171,344,864, including: for salaries and expenses 
of the Office of the Clerk, including the positions of the Chaplain and 
the Historian, and including not more than $25,000 for official 
representative and reception expenses, of which not more than $20,000 
is for the Family Room and not more than $2,000 is for the Office of 
the Chaplain, $24,009,473; for salaries and expenses of the Office of 
the Sergeant at Arms, including the position of Superintendent of 
Garages and the Office of Emergency Management, and including not more 
than $3,000 for official representation and reception expenses, 
$11,926,729 of which $4,344,000 shall remain available until expended; 
for salaries and expenses of the Office of the Chief Administrative 
Officer including not more than $3,000 for official representation and 
reception expenses, $113,100,000, of which $4,000,000 shall remain 
available until expended; for salaries and expenses of the Office of 
the Inspector General, $4,741,809; for salaries and expenses of the 
Office of General Counsel, $1,340,987; for salaries and expenses of the 
Office of the Parliamentarian, including the Parliamentarian, $2,000 
for preparing the Digest of Rules, and not more than $1,000 for 
official representation and reception expenses, $1,952,249; for 
salaries and expenses of the Office of the Law Revision Counsel of the 
House, $4,087,587, of which $1,000,000 shall remain available until 
expended for the completion of the House Modernization Initiative; for 
salaries and expenses of the Office of the Legislative Counsel of the 
House, $8,892,975, of which $540,000 shall remain available until 
expended for the completion of the House Modernization Initiative; for 
salaries and expenses of the Office of Interparliamentary Affairs, 
$814,069; for other authorized employees, $478,986.

                        Allowances and Expenses

    For allowances and expenses as authorized by House resolution or 
law, $285,620,336, including: supplies, materials, administrative costs 
and Federal tort claims, $4,152,789; official mail for committees, 
leadership offices, and administrative offices of the House, $190,486; 
Government contributions for health, retirement, Social Security, and 
other applicable employee benefits, $256,635,776, to remain available 
until March 31, 2016; Business Continuity and Disaster Recovery, 
$16,217,008 of which $5,000,000 shall remain available until expended; 
transition activities for new members and staff, $3,737,000, to remain 
available until expended; Wounded Warrior Program $2,500,000, to remain 
available until expended; Office of Congressional Ethics, $1,467,030; 
and miscellaneous items including purchase, exchange, maintenance, 
repair and operation of House motor vehicles, interparliamentary 
receptions, and gratuities to heirs of deceased employees of the House, 
$720,247.

                       Administrative Provisions

    Sec. 101. (a) Requiring Amounts Remaining in Members' 
Representational Allowances To Be Used for Deficit Reduction or To 
Reduce the Federal Debt.--Notwithstanding any other provision of law, 
any amounts appropriated under this Act for ``HOUSE OF 
REPRESENTATIVES--Salaries and Expenses--Members' Representational 
Allowances'' shall be available only for fiscal year 2015. Any amount 
remaining after all payments are made under such allowances for fiscal 
year 2015 shall be deposited in the Treasury and used for deficit 
reduction (or, if there is no Federal budget deficit after all such 
payments have been made, for reducing the Federal debt, in such manner 
as the Secretary of the Treasury considers appropriate).
    (b) Regulations.--The Committee on House Administration of the 
House of Representatives shall have authority to prescribe regulations 
to carry out this section.
    (c) Definition.--As used in this section, the term ``Member of the 
House of Representatives'' means a Representative in, or a Delegate or 
Resident Commissioner to, the Congress.

                   delivery of bills and resolutions

    Sec. 102.  None of the funds made available in this Act may be used 
to deliver a printed copy of a bill, joint resolution, or resolution to 
the office of a Member of the House of Representatives (including a 
Delegate or Resident Commissioner to the Congress) unless the Member 
requests a copy.

                    delivery of congressional record

    Sec. 103.  None of the funds made available by this Act may be used 
to deliver a printed copy of any version of the Congressional Record to 
the office of a Member of the House of Representatives (including a 
Delegate or Resident Commissioner to the Congress).

            limitation on amount available to lease vehicles

    Sec. 104.  None of the funds made available in this Act may be used 
by the Chief Administrative Officer of the House of Representatives to 
make any payments from any Members' Representational Allowance for the 
leasing of a vehicle, excluding mobile district offices, in an 
aggregate amount that exceeds $1,000 for the vehicle in any month.

           limitation on printed copies of u.s. code to house

    Sec. 105.  None of the funds made available by this Act may be used 
to provide an aggregate number of more than 50 printed copies of any 
edition of the United States Code to all offices of the House of 
Representatives.

                              JOINT ITEMS

    For Joint Committees, as follows:

                        Joint Economic Committee

    For salaries and expenses of the Joint Economic Committee, 
$4,246,000, to be disbursed by the Secretary of the Senate.

                      Joint Committee on Taxation

    For salaries and expenses of the Joint Committee on Taxation, 
$10,095,000, to be disbursed by the Chief Administrative Officer of the 
House of Representatives.

                   Office of the Attending Physician

    For medical supplies, equipment, and contingent expenses of the 
emergency rooms, and for the Attending Physician and his assistants, 
including:
            (1) an allowance of $2,175 per month to the Attending 
        Physician;
            (2) an allowance of $1,300 per month to the Senior Medical 
        Officer;
            (3) an allowance of $725 per month each to three medical 
        officers while on duty in the Office of the Attending 
        Physician;
            (4) an allowance of $725 per month to 2 assistants and $580 
        per month each not to exceed 11 assistants on the basis 
        heretofore provided for such assistants; and
            (5) $2,486,000 for reimbursement to the Department of the 
        Navy for expenses incurred for staff and equipment assigned to 
        the Office of the Attending Physician, which shall be advanced 
        and credited to the applicable appropriation or appropriations 
        from which such salaries, allowances, and other expenses are 
        payable and shall be available for all the purposes thereof, 
        $3,371,000, to be disbursed by the Chief Administrative Officer 
        of the House of Representatives.

             Office of Congressional Accessibility Services

                         salaries and expenses

    For salaries and expenses of the Office of Congressional 
Accessibility Services, $1,400,000, to be disbursed by the Secretary of 
the Senate.

                             CAPITOL POLICE

                                Salaries

    For salaries of employees of the Capitol Police, including 
overtime, hazardous duty pay differential, and Government contributions 
for health, retirement, social security, professional liability 
insurance, and other applicable employee benefits, $284,588,499, of 
which overtime shall not exceed $23,425,000 unless the Committees on 
Appropriations of the House and Senate are notified, to be disbursed by 
the Chief of the Capitol Police or his designee.

                            General Expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Capitol Police, including motor 
vehicles, communications and other equipment, security equipment and 
installation, uniforms, weapons, supplies, materials, training, medical 
services, forensic services, stenographic services, personal and 
professional services, the employee assistance program, the awards 
program, postage, communication services, travel advances, relocation 
of instructor and liaison personnel for the Federal Law Enforcement 
Training Center, and not more than $5,000 to be expended on the 
certification of the Chief of the Capitol Police in connection with 
official representation and reception expenses, $59,459,499, to be 
disbursed by the Chief of the Capitol Police or his designee:  
Provided, That, notwithstanding any other provision of law, the cost of 
basic training for the Capitol Police at the Federal Law Enforcement 
Training Center for fiscal year 2015 shall be paid by the Secretary of 
Homeland Security from funds available to the Department of Homeland 
Security.

                          OFFICE OF COMPLIANCE

                         Salaries and Expenses

    For salaries and expenses of the Office of Compliance, as 
authorized by section 305 of the Congressional Accountability Act of 
1995 (2 U.S.C. 1385), $3,959,000, of which $450,000 shall remain 
available until September 30, 2016:  Provided, That not more than $500 
may be expended on the certification of the Executive Director of the 
Office of Compliance in connection with official representation and 
reception expenses.

                        Administrative Provision

                         employee notifications

    Sec. 1001.  Section 301(h)(2) of the Congressional Accountability 
Act of 1995 (2 U.S.C. 1381(h)(2)) is amended by striking ``the 
residences of covered employees'' and inserting ``covered employees by 
the end of each fiscal year''.

                      CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE

                         Salaries and Expenses

    For salaries and expenses necessary for operation of the 
Congressional Budget Office, including not more than $6,000 to be 
expended on the certification of the Director of the Congressional 
Budget Office in connection with official representation and reception 
expenses, $46,057,000.

                        ARCHITECT OF THE CAPITOL

                         General Administration

    For salaries for the Architect of the Capitol, and other personal 
services, at rates of pay provided by law; for surveys and studies in 
connection with activities under the care of the Architect of the 
Capitol; for all necessary expenses for the general and administrative 
support of the operations under the Architect of the Capitol including 
the Botanic Garden; electrical substations of the Capitol, Senate and 
House office buildings, and other facilities under the jurisdiction of 
the Architect of the Capitol; including furnishings and office 
equipment; including not more than $5,000 for official reception and 
representation expenses, to be expended as the Architect of the Capitol 
may approve; for purchase or exchange, maintenance, and operation of a 
passenger motor vehicle, $93,348,000, of which $1,617,000 shall remain 
available until September 30, 2019.

                            Capitol Building

    For all necessary expenses for the maintenance, care and operation 
of the Capitol, $53,313,000, of which $7,617,000 shall remain available 
until September 30, 2019, and of which $21,222,000 shall remain 
available until expended solely for expenses related to rehabilitation 
of the U.S. Capitol Dome.

                            Capitol Grounds

    For all necessary expenses for care and improvement of grounds 
surrounding the Capitol, the Senate and House office buildings, and the 
Capitol Power Plant, $11,973,000, of which $2,000,000 shall remain 
available until September 30, 2019.

                        Senate Office Buildings

    For all necessary expenses for the maintenance, care and operation 
of Senate office buildings; and furniture and furnishings to be 
expended under the control and supervision of the Architect of the 
Capitol, $100,272,000, of which $41,447,000 shall remain available 
until September 30, 2019.

                         House Office Buildings

    For all necessary expenses for the maintenance, care and operation 
of the House office buildings, $71,622,000, of which $7,000,000 shall 
remain available until September 30, 2019.
    In addition, for a payment to the House Historic Buildings 
Revitalization Trust Fund, $70,000,000, to remain available until 
expended.

                          Capitol Power Plant

    For all necessary expenses for the maintenance, care and operation 
of the Capitol Power Plant; lighting, heating, power (including the 
purchase of electrical energy) and water and sewer services for the 
Capitol, Senate and House office buildings, Library of Congress 
buildings, and the grounds about the same, Botanic Garden, Senate 
garage, and air conditioning refrigeration not supplied from plants in 
any of such buildings; heating the Government Printing Office and 
Washington City Post Office, and heating and chilled water for air 
conditioning for the Supreme Court Building, the Union Station complex, 
the Thurgood Marshall Federal Judiciary Building and the Folger 
Shakespeare Library, expenses for which shall be advanced or reimbursed 
upon request of the Architect of the Capitol and amounts so received 
shall be deposited into the Treasury to the credit of this 
appropriation, $94,768,000, of which $10,386,000 shall remain available 
until September 30, 2019:  Provided, That not more than $9,000,000 of 
the funds credited or to be reimbursed to this appropriation as herein 
provided shall be available for obligation during fiscal year 2015.

                     Library Buildings and Grounds

    For all necessary expenses for the mechanical and structural 
maintenance, care and operation of the Library buildings and grounds, 
$47,628,000, of which $22,490,000 shall remain available until 
September 30, 2019.

             Capitol Police Buildings, Grounds and Security

    For all necessary expenses for the maintenance, care and operation 
of buildings, grounds and security enhancements of the United States 
Capitol Police, wherever located, the Alternate Computer Facility, and 
AOC security operations, $20,659,000, of which $2,500,000 shall remain 
available until September 30, 2019.

                             Botanic Garden

    For all necessary expenses for the maintenance, care and operation 
of the Botanic Garden and the nurseries, buildings, grounds, and 
collections; and purchase and exchange, maintenance, repair, and 
operation of a passenger motor vehicle; all under the direction of the 
Joint Committee on the Library, $15,573,000, of which $5,693,000 shall 
remain available until September 30, 2019:  Provided, That of the 
amount made available under this heading, the Architect of the Capitol 
may obligate and expend such sums as may be necessary for the 
maintenance, care and operation of the National Garden established 
under section 307E of the Legislative Branch Appropriations Act, 1989 
(2 U.S.C. 2146), upon vouchers approved by the Architect of the Capitol 
or a duly authorized designee.

                         Capitol Visitor Center

    For all necessary expenses for the operation of the Capitol Visitor 
Center, $20,844,000.

                        Administrative Provision

u.s. botanic garden administration of educational outreach and services

    Sec. 1101.  (a) The Architect of the Capitol, subject to the 
direction of the Joint Committee of Congress on the Library, may enter 
into cooperative agreements with entities under such terms as the 
Architect determines advisable, in order to support the United States 
Botanic Garden in carrying out its duties, authorities, and mission.
    (b)(1) The Architect of the Capitol may, subject to the direction 
of the Joint Committee of Congress on the Library, enter into a no-cost 
agreement, through a contract, cooperative agreement, or memorandum of 
understanding, with a qualified entity to conduct, or provide support 
for, an educational exhibit, program, class, or outreach that benefits 
the educational mission of the United States Botanic Garden.
    (2) Any agreement under paragraph (1) may--
            (A) allow the qualified entity to accept fees for any 
        program or class described in paragraph (1) in order to cover 
        all or a portion of the entity's costs of any supplies, 
        honoraria, or associated expenses for the program or class; and
            (B) subject to such terms as the Architect considers 
        appropriate and necessary, grant temporary concessions to the 
        qualified entity, or allow the qualified entity to grant 
        temporary concessions to another person, in connection with an 
        educational exhibit, program, class, or outreach described in 
        paragraph (1), including concessions for food and merchandise 
        sales that are specifically related to the educational mission 
        involved.
    (3) Section 5104(c) of title 40, United States Code, shall not 
apply to any activity carried out under this subsection.
    (4) In this subsection, the term ``qualified entity'' means--
            (A) the National Fund for the United States Botanic Garden; 
        and
            (B) any other organization described in section 501(c) of 
        the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 and exempt from tax under 
        section 501(a) of such Code that the Architect of the Capitol 
        determines shares interests complementary to the educational 
        mission of the United States Botanic Garden.
    (c) Any authority under subsection (a) or (b) shall not apply to 
any agreement providing for the construction or improvement of real 
property.
    (d) This section shall apply with respect to fiscal year 2015 and 
each succeeding fiscal year.

                          LIBRARY OF CONGRESS

                         Salaries and Expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Library of Congress not otherwise 
provided for, including development and maintenance of the Library's 
catalogs; custody and custodial care of the Library buildings; special 
clothing; cleaning, laundering and repair of uniforms; preservation of 
motion pictures in the custody of the Library; operation and 
maintenance of the American Folklife Center in the Library; activities 
under the Civil Rights History Project Act of 2009; preparation and 
distribution of catalog records and other publications of the Library; 
hire or purchase of one passenger motor vehicle; and expenses of the 
Library of Congress Trust Fund Board not properly chargeable to the 
income of any trust fund held by the Board, $416,172,999, of which not 
more than $6,000,000 shall be derived from collections credited to this 
appropriation during fiscal year 2015, and shall remain available until 
expended, under the Act of June 28, 1902 (chapter 1301; 32 Stat. 480; 2 
U.S.C. 150) and not more than $350,000 shall be derived from 
collections during fiscal year 2015 and shall remain available until 
expended for the development and maintenance of an international legal 
information database and activities related thereto:  Provided, That 
the Library of Congress may not obligate or expend any funds derived 
from collections under the Act of June 28, 1902, in excess of the 
amount authorized for obligation or expenditure in appropriations Acts: 
 Provided further, That the total amount available for obligation shall 
be reduced by the amount by which collections are less than $6,350,000: 
 Provided further, That of the total amount appropriated, not more than 
$12,000 may be expended, on the certification of the Librarian of 
Congress, in connection with official representation and reception 
expenses for the Overseas Field Offices:  Provided further, That of the 
total amount appropriated, $7,271,000 shall remain available until 
expended for the digital collections and educational curricula program.

                            Copyright Office

                         Salaries and Expenses

    For all necessary expenses of the Copyright Office, $53,140,499, of 
which not more than $27,971,000, to remain available until expended, 
shall be derived from collections credited to this appropriation during 
fiscal year 2015 under section 708(d) of title 17, United States Code:  
Provided, That the Copyright Office may not obligate or expend any 
funds derived from collections under such section, in excess of the 
amount authorized for obligation or expenditure in appropriations Acts: 
 Provided further, That not more than $5,611,000 shall be derived from 
collections during fiscal year 2015 under sections 111(d)(2), 
119(b)(2), 803(e), 1005, and 1316 of such title:  Provided further, 
That the total amount available for obligation shall be reduced by the 
amount by which collections are less than $33,582,000:  Provided 
further, That not more than $100,000 of the amount appropriated is 
available for the maintenance of an ``International Copyright 
Institute'' in the Copyright Office of the Library of Congress for the 
purpose of training nationals of developing countries in intellectual 
property laws and policies:  Provided further, That not more than 
$6,500 may be expended, on the certification of the Librarian of 
Congress, in connection with official representation and reception 
expenses for activities of the International Copyright Institute and 
for copyright delegations, visitors, and seminars:  Provided further, 
That notwithstanding any provision of chapter 8 of title 17, United 
States Code, any amounts made available under this heading which are 
attributable to royalty fees and payments received by the Copyright 
Office pursuant to sections 111, 119, and chapter 10 of such title may 
be used for the costs incurred in the administration of the Copyright 
Royalty Judges program, with the exception of the costs of salaries and 
benefits for the Copyright Royalty Judges and staff under section 
802(e).

                     Congressional Research Service

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of section 203 
of the Legislative Reorganization Act of 1946 (2 U.S.C. 166) and to 
revise and extend the Annotated Constitution of the United States of 
America, $107,796,000:  Provided, That no part of such amount may be 
used to pay any salary or expense in connection with any publication, 
or preparation of material therefor (except the Digest of Public 
General Bills), to be issued by the Library of Congress unless such 
publication has obtained prior approval of either the Committee on 
House Administration of the House of Representatives or the Committee 
on Rules and Administration of the Senate.

             Books for the Blind and Physically Handicapped

                         salaries and expenses

    For salaries and expenses to carry out the Act of March 3, 1931 
(chapter 400; 46 Stat. 1487; 2 U.S.C. 135a), $50,247,500:  Provided, 
That of the total amount appropriated, $650,000 shall be available to 
contract to provide newspapers to blind and physically handicapped 
residents at no cost to the individual.

                       Administrative Provisions

               reimbursable and revolving fund activities

    Sec. 1201. (a) In General.--For fiscal year 2015, the obligational 
authority of the Library of Congress for the activities described in 
subsection (b) may not exceed $203,057,000.
    (b) Activities.--The activities referred to in subsection (a) are 
reimbursable and revolving fund activities that are funded from sources 
other than appropriations to the Library in appropriations Acts for the 
legislative branch.

                           transfer authority

    Sec. 1202. (a) In General.--For fiscal year 2015, amounts 
appropriated for the Library of Congress may be transferred during the 
fiscal year between any of the headings under the heading ``Library of 
Congress'' upon the approval of the Committees on Appropriations of the 
Senate and the House of Representatives.
    (b) Limitation.--Not more than 10 percent of the total amount of 
funds appropriated to the account under any heading under the heading 
``Library of Congress'' in the fiscal year may be transferred from that 
account by all transfers made under subsection (a).

                      GOVERNMENT PUBLISHING OFFICE

                        Congressional Publishing

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For authorized publishing of congressional information and the 
distribution of congressional information in any format; expenses 
necessary for preparing the semimonthly and session index to the 
Congressional Record, as authorized by law (section 902 of title 44, 
United States Code); publishing of Government publications authorized 
by law to be distributed to Members of Congress; and publishing and 
distribution of Government publications authorized by law to be 
distributed without charge to the recipient, $82,545,000:  Provided, 
That this appropriation shall not be available for paper copies of the 
permanent edition of the Congressional Record for individual 
Representatives, Resident Commissioners or Delegates authorized under 
section 906 of title 44, United States Code:  Provided further, That 
this appropriation shall be available for the payment of obligations 
incurred under the appropriations for similar purposes for preceding 
fiscal years:  Provided further, That notwithstanding the 2-year 
limitation under section 718 of title 44, United States Code, none of 
the funds appropriated or made available under this Act or any other 
Act for printing and related services provided to Congress under 
chapter 7 of title 44, United States Code, may be expended to print a 
document, report, or publication after the 27-month period beginning on 
the date that such document, report, or publication is authorized by 
Congress to be printed, unless Congress reauthorizes such printing in 
accordance with section 718 of title 44, United States Code:  Provided 
further, That any unobligated or unexpended balances in this account or 
accounts for similar purposes for preceding fiscal years may be 
transferred to the Government Publishing Office revolving fund for 
carrying out the purposes of this heading, subject to the approval of 
the Committees on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and 
Senate:  Provided further, That notwithstanding sections 901, 902, and 
904 of title 44, United States Code, this appropriation may be used to 
prepare indexes to the Congressional Record on only a monthly and 
session basis.

     Public Information Programs of the Superintendent of Documents

                         salaries and expenses

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For expenses of the public information programs of the Office of 
Superintendent of Documents, including the cataloging and indexing of 
Government publications and their distribution to the public, Members 
of Congress, other Government agencies, and designated depository and 
international exchange libraries as authorized by law, $31,500,000:  
Provided, That amounts of not more than $2,000,000 from current year 
appropriations are authorized for producing and disseminating 
congressional serial sets and other related publications for fiscal 
years 2013 and 2014 to depository and other designated libraries:  
Provided further, That any unobligated or unexpended balances in this 
account or accounts for similar purposes for preceding fiscal years may 
be transferred to the Government Publishing Office revolving fund for 
carrying out the purposes of this heading, subject to the approval of 
the Committees on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and 
Senate.

    Government Publishing Office Business Operations Revolving Fund

    For payment to the Government Publishing Office Business Operations 
Revolving Fund, $8,064,273, to remain available until expended, for 
information technology development and facilities repair:  Provided, 
That the Government Publishing Office is hereby authorized to make such 
expenditures, within the limits of funds available and in accordance 
with law, and to make such contracts and commitments without regard to 
fiscal year limitations as provided by section 9104 of title 31, United 
States Code, as may be necessary in carrying out the programs and 
purposes set forth in the budget for the current fiscal year for the 
Government Publishing Office revolving fund:  Provided further, That 
not more than $7,500 may be expended on the certification of the 
Director of the Government Publishing Office in connection with 
official representation and reception expenses:  Provided further, That 
the revolving fund shall be available for the hire or purchase of not 
more than 12 passenger motor vehicles:  Provided further, That 
expenditures in connection with travel expenses of the advisory 
councils to the Director of the Government Publishing Office shall be 
deemed necessary to carry out the provisions of title 44, United States 
Code:  Provided further, That the revolving fund shall be available for 
temporary or intermittent services under section 3109(b) of title 5, 
United States Code, but at rates for individuals not more than the 
daily equivalent of the annual rate of basic pay for level V of the 
Executive Schedule under section 5316 of such title:  Provided further, 
That activities financed through the revolving fund may provide 
information in any format:  Provided further, That the revolving fund 
and the funds provided under the heading ``Public Information Programs 
of the Superintendent of Documents'' may not be used for contracted 
security services at GPO's passport facility in the District of 
Columbia.

                        Administrative Provision

 redesignation of government printing office to government publishing 
                                 office

    Sec. 1301.  (a) In General.--The Government Printing Office is 
hereby redesignated the Government Publishing Office.
    (b) References.--Any reference to the Government Printing Office in 
any law, rule, regulation, certificate, directive, instruction, or 
other official paper in force on the date of enactment of this Act 
shall be considered to refer and apply to the Government Publishing 
Office.
    (c) Title 44, United States Code.--Title 44, United States Code, is 
amended--
            (1) by striking ``Public Printer'' each place that term 
        appears and inserting ``Director of the Government Publishing 
        Office''; and
            (2) in the heading for each of sections 301, 302, 303, 304, 
        305, 306, 307, 502, 710, 1102, 1111, 1115, 1340, 1701, 1712, 
        and 1914, by striking ``public printer'' and inserting 
        ``director of the government publishing office''.
    (d) Other References.--Any reference in any law other than in title 
44, United States Code, or in any rule, regulation, certificate, 
directive, instruction, or other official paper in force on the date of 
enactment of this Act to the Public Printer shall be considered to 
refer and apply to the Director of the Government Publishing Office.
    (e) Title 44, United States Code.--Title 44, United States Code, is 
amended--
            (1) by striking ``Deputy Public Printer'' each place that 
        term appears and inserting ``Deputy Director of the Government 
        Publishing Office''; and
            (2) in the heading for each of sections 302 and 303, by 
        striking ``deputy public printer'' and inserting ``deputy 
        director of the government publishing office''.
    (f) Other References.--Any reference in any law other than in title 
44, United States Code, or in any rule, regulation, certificate, 
directive, instruction, or other official paper in force on the date of 
enactment of this Act to the Deputy Public Printer shall be considered 
to refer and apply to the Deputy Director of the Government Publishing 
Office.
    (g) Section 301 of title 44, United States Code, is amended--
            (1) in the first sentence, by striking ``, who must be a 
        practical printer and versed in the art of bookbinding,''; and
            (2) in the second sentence, by striking ``His'' and 
        inserting ``The''.
    (h) Section 302 of title 44, United States Code, is amended--
            (1) in the first sentence, by striking ``, who must be a 
        practical printer and versed in the art of bookbinding,''; and
            (2) in the second sentence--
                    (A) by striking ``He'' and inserting ``The Deputy 
                Director of the Government Publishing Office'';
                    (B) by striking ``perform the duties formerly 
                required of the chief clerk,'';
                    (C) by striking ``, and perform'' and inserting 
                ``and perform''; and
                    (D) by striking ``of him''.
    (i) Chapter 3 of title 44, United States Code is amended--
            (1) in the first sentence of section 304, by striking ``or 
        his'' and inserting ``or the Director's'';
            (2) in section 305(a)--
                    (A) by striking ``he considers'' and inserting 
                ``the Director considers''; and
                    (B) by striking ``He may not'' and inserting ``The 
                Director of the Government Publishing Office may not'';
            (3) in section 306, by striking ``his direction'' and 
        inserting ``the direction of the Director'';
            (4) in section 308--
                    (A) in subsection (b)(1)--
                            (i) by striking ``his accounts'' and 
                        inserting ``the accounts of the disbursing 
                        officer''; and
                            (ii) by striking ``his name'' and inserting 
                        ``the name of the disbursing officer'';
                    (B) in subsection (b)(2)--
                            (i) by striking ``his estate'' and 
                        inserting ``the estate of the disbursing 
                        officer'';
                            (ii) by striking ``to him'' and inserting 
                        ``to the deputy disbursing officer''; and
                            (iii) by striking ``his service'' and 
                        inserting ``the service of the deputy 
                        disbursing officer''; and
                    (C) in subsection (c)(1)--
                            (i) by striking ``by him'' and inserting 
                        ``by such officer or employee'';
                            (ii) by striking ``his discretion'' and 
                        inserting ``the discretion of the Comptroller 
                        General''; and
                            (iii) by striking ``whenever he'' each 
                        place that terms appears and inserting 
                        ``whenever the Comptroller General'';
            (5) in section 309--
                    (A) in the second sentence of subsection (a), by 
                striking ``by him'' and inserting ``by the Director''; 
                and
                    (B) in subsection (f), by striking ``his or her 
                discretion'' and inserting ``the discretion of the 
                Comptroller General'';
            (6) in section 310, by striking ``his written request'' and 
        inserting ``the written request of the Director'';
            (7) in section 311(b), by striking ``he justifies'' and 
        inserting ``the Director justifies'';
            (8) in section 312, by striking ``his service'' and 
        inserting ``the service of such officer''; and
            (9) in section 317, by striking ``his delegate'' and 
        inserting ``a delegate of the Director''.

                    GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABILITY OFFICE

                         Salaries and Expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Government Accountability Office, 
including not more than $12,500 to be expended on the certification of 
the Comptroller General of the United States in connection with 
official representation and reception expenses; temporary or 
intermittent services under section 3109(b) of title 5, United States 
Code, but at rates for individuals not more than the daily equivalent 
of the annual rate of basic pay for level IV of the Executive Schedule 
under section 5315 of such title; hire of one passenger motor vehicle; 
advance payments in foreign countries in accordance with section 3324 
of title 31, United States Code; benefits comparable to those payable 
under sections 901(5), (6), and (8) of the Foreign Service Act of 1980 
(22 U.S.C. 4081(5), (6), and (8)); and under regulations prescribed by 
the Comptroller General of the United States, rental of living quarters 
in foreign countries, $525,512,999:  Provided, That in addition, 
$23,750,000 of payments received under sections 782, 3521, and 9105 of 
title 31, United States Code, shall be available without fiscal year 
limitation:  Provided further, That this appropriation and 
appropriations for administrative expenses of any other department or 
agency which is a member of the National Intergovernmental Audit Forum 
or a Regional Intergovernmental Audit Forum shall be available to 
finance an appropriate share of either Forum's costs as determined by 
the respective Forum, including necessary travel expenses of non-
Federal participants:  Provided further, That payments hereunder to the 
Forum may be credited as reimbursements to any appropriation from which 
costs involved are initially financed.

                        Administrative Provision

                      center for audit excellence

    Sec. 1401. (a) Center for Audit Excellence.--
            (1) Establishment.--Chapter 7 of title 31, United States 
        Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new 
        subchapter:

             ``Subchapter VII--Center for Audit Excellence

``SEC. 791. CENTER FOR AUDIT EXCELLENCE.

    ``(a) Establishment.--The Comptroller General shall establish, 
maintain, and operate a center within the Government Accountability 
Office to be known as the `Center for Audit Excellence' (hereafter in 
this subchapter referred to as the `Center').
    ``(b) Purpose and Activities.--
            ``(1) In general.--The Center shall build institutional 
        auditing capacity and promote good governance by providing 
        affordable, relevant, and high-quality training, technical 
        assistance, and products and services to qualified personnel 
        and entities of governments (including the Federal Government, 
        State and local governments, tribal governments, and 
        governments of foreign nations), international organizations, 
        and other private organizations.
            ``(2) Determination of qualified personnel and entities.--
        Personnel and entities shall be considered qualified for 
        purposes of receiving training, technical assistance, and 
        products or services from the Center under paragraph (1) in 
        accordance with such criteria as the Comptroller General may 
        establish and publish.
    ``(c) Fees.--
            ``(1) Permitting charging of fees.--The Comptroller General 
        may establish, charge, and collect fees (on a reimbursable or 
        advance basis) for the training, technical assistance, and 
        products and services provided by the Center under this 
        subchapter.
            ``(2) Deposit into separate account.--The Comptroller 
        General shall deposit all fees collected under paragraph (1) 
        into the Center for Audit Excellence Account established under 
        section 792.
    ``(d) Gifts of Property and Services.--The Comptroller General may 
accept and use conditional or non-conditional gifts of property (both 
real and personal) and services (including services of guest lecturers) 
to support the operation of the Center, except that the Comptroller 
General may not accept or use such a gift if the Comptroller General 
determines that the acceptance or use of the gift would compromise or 
appear to compromise the integrity of the Government Accountability 
Office.
    ``(e) Sense of Congress Regarding Personnel.--It is the sense of 
Congress that the Center should be staffed primarily by personnel of 
the Government Accountability Office who are not otherwise engaged in 
carrying out other duties of the Office under this chapter, so as to 
ensure that the operation of the Center will not detract from or impact 
the oversight and audit work of the Office.

``SEC. 792. ACCOUNT.

    ``(a) Establishment of Separate Account.--There is established in 
the Treasury as a separate account for the Government Accountability 
Office the `Center for Audit Excellence Account', which shall consist 
of the fees deposited by the Comptroller General under section 791(c) 
and such other amounts as may be appropriated under law.
    ``(b) Use of Account.--Amounts in the Center for Audit Excellence 
Account shall be available to the Comptroller General, in amounts 
specified in appropriations Acts and without fiscal year limitation, to 
carry out this subchapter.

``SEC. 793. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.

    ``There are authorized to be appropriated such sums as may be 
necessary to carry out this subchapter.''.
            (2) Clerical amendment.--The table of sections for chapter 
        7 of title 31, United States Code, is amended by adding at the 
        end the following:

              ``subchapter vii--center for audit excellence

``791. Center for Audit Excellence.
``792. Account.
``793. Authorization of appropriations.''
    (b) Approval of Business Plan.--The Comptroller General may not 
begin operating the Center for Audit Excellence under subchapter VII of 
chapter 7 of title 31, United States Code (as added by subsection (a)) 
until--
            (1) the Comptroller General submits a business plan for the 
        Center to the Committees on Appropriations of the House of 
        Representatives and Senate; and
            (2) each such Committee approves the plan.

                OPEN WORLD LEADERSHIP CENTER TRUST FUND

    For a payment to the Open World Leadership Center Trust Fund for 
financing activities of the Open World Leadership Center under section 
313 of the Legislative Branch Appropriations Act, 2001 (2 U.S.C. 1151), 
$5,700,000:  Provided, That funds made available to support Russian 
participants shall only be used for those engaging in free market 
development, humanitarian activities, and civic engagement, and shall 
not be used for senior officials of the central government of Russia.

   JOHN C. STENNIS CENTER FOR PUBLIC SERVICE TRAINING AND DEVELOPMENT

    For payment to the John C. Stennis Center for Public Service 
Development Trust Fund established under section 116 of the John C. 
Stennis Center for Public Service Training and Development Act (2 
U.S.C. 1105), $430,000.

                                TITLE II

                           GENERAL PROVISIONS

                maintenance and care of private vehicles

    Sec. 201.  No part of the funds appropriated in this Act shall be 
used for the maintenance or care of private vehicles, except for 
emergency assistance and cleaning as may be provided under regulations 
relating to parking facilities for the House of Representatives issued 
by the Committee on House Administration and for the Senate issued by 
the Committee on Rules and Administration.

                         fiscal year limitation

    Sec. 202.  No part of any appropriation contained in this Act shall 
remain available for obligation beyond the current fiscal year unless 
expressly so provided herein.

                 rates of compensation and designation

    Sec. 203.  Whenever in this Act any office or position not 
specifically established by the Legislative Pay Act of 1929 (46 Stat. 
32 et seq.) is appropriated for or the rate of compensation or 
designation of any office or position appropriated for is different 
from that specifically established by such Act, the rate of 
compensation and the designation in this Act shall be the permanent law 
with respect thereto:  Provided, That the provisions in this Act for 
the various items of official expenses of Members, officers, and 
committees of the Senate and House of Representatives, and clerk hire 
for Senators and Members of the House of Representatives shall be the 
permanent law with respect thereto.

                          consulting services

    Sec. 204.  The expenditure of any appropriation under this Act for 
any consulting service through procurement contract, under section 3109 
of title 5, United States Code, shall be limited to those contracts 
where such expenditures are a matter of public record and available for 
public inspection, except where otherwise provided under existing law, 
or under existing Executive order issued under existing law.

                             costs of lbfmc

    Sec. 205.  Amounts available for administrative expenses of any 
legislative branch entity which participates in the Legislative Branch 
Financial Managers Council (LBFMC) established by charter on March 26, 
1996, shall be available to finance an appropriate share of LBFMC costs 
as determined by the LBFMC, except that the total LBFMC costs to be 
shared among all participating legislative branch entities (in such 
allocations among the entities as the entities may determine) may not 
exceed $2,000.

                         landscape maintenance

    Sec. 206.  For fiscal year 2015 and each fiscal year thereafter, 
the Architect of the Capitol, in consultation with the District of 
Columbia, is authorized to maintain and improve the landscape features, 
excluding streets, in Square 580 up to the beginning of I-395.

                        limitation on transfers

    Sec. 207.  None of the funds made available in this Act may be 
transferred to any department, agency, or instrumentality of the United 
States Government, except pursuant to a transfer made by, or transfer 
authority provided in, this Act or any other appropriation Act.

                      guided tours of the capitol

    Sec. 208. (a) Except as provided in subsection (b), none of the 
funds made available to the Architect of the Capitol in this Act may be 
used to eliminate or restrict guided tours of the United States Capitol 
which are led by employees and interns of offices of Members of 
Congress and other offices of the House of Representatives and Senate.
    (b) At the direction of the Capitol Police Board, or at the 
direction of the Architect of the Capitol with the approval of the 
Capitol Police Board, guided tours of the United States Capitol which 
are led by employees and interns described in subsection (a) may be 
suspended temporarily or otherwise subject to restriction for security 
or related reasons to the same extent as guided tours of the United 
States Capitol which are led by the Architect of the Capitol.

                      adjustments to compensation

    Sec. 209.  Notwithstanding any other provision of law, no 
adjustment shall be made under section 610(a) of the Legislative 
Reorganization Act of 1946 (2 U.S.C. 31) (relating to cost of living 
adjustments for Members of Congress) during fiscal year 2015.

       no bonuses for contractors behind schedule or over budget

    Sec. 210.  None of the funds made available in this Act may be used 
to make bonus awards to contractors for work on projects for which the 
contractor is behind schedule or over budget, unless the head of the 
agency determines that any such deviations are due to unforeseeable 
events or are not significant within the context of the project.

                    no funds for official portraits

    Sec. 211.  None of the funds made available in this Act may be used 
to pay for the painting of a portrait of an officer or employee of the 
Federal Government, including the President, the Vice President, a 
member of Congress (including a Delegate or a Resident Commissioner to 
Congress), the head of an executive branch agency (as defined in 
section 133 of title 41, United States Code), or the head of an office 
of the legislative branch.
     This Act may be cited as the ``Legislative Branch Appropriations 
Act, 2015''.
                                                       Calendar No. 436

113th CONGRESS

  2d Session

                               H. R. 4487

                          [Report No. 113-196]

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 AN ACT

 Making appropriations for the Legislative Branch for the fiscal year 
           ending September 30, 2015, and for other purposes.

_______________________________________________________________________

                              May 5, 2014

  Received; read twice and referred to the Committee on Appropriations

                             June 19, 2014

                       Reported with an amendment
