
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 2279 Introduced in House (IH)]

113th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                H. R. 2279

To amend the Solid Waste Disposal Act relating to review of regulations 
 under such Act and to amend the Comprehensive Environmental Response, 
     Compensation, and Liability Act of 1980 relating to financial 
               responsibility for classes of facilities.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                              June 6, 2013

 Mr. Gardner introduced the following bill; which was referred to the 
 Committee on Energy and Commerce, and in addition to the Committee on 
  Transportation and Infrastructure, for a period to be subsequently 
   determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of such 
 provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
To amend the Solid Waste Disposal Act relating to review of regulations 
 under such Act and to amend the Comprehensive Environmental Response, 
     Compensation, and Liability Act of 1980 relating to financial 
               responsibility for classes of facilities.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Reducing Excessive Deadline 
Obligations Act of 2013''.

SEC. 2. REVIEW OF REGULATIONS UNDER THE SOLID WASTE DISPOSAL ACT.

    Section 2002(b) of the Solid Waste Disposal Act (42 U.S.C. 6912(b)) 
is amended to read as follows:
    ``(b) Review of Regulations.--The Administrator shall review, and 
revise, as the Administrator determines appropriate, regulations 
promulgated under this Act.''.

SEC. 3. FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY FOR CLASSES OF FACILITIES UNDER 
              CERCLA.

    Section 108(b) of the Comprehensive Environmental Response, 
Compensation, and Liability Act of 1980 (42 U.S.C. 9608(b)) is 
amended--
            (1) in paragraph (1)--
                    (A) by striking ``Not later than three years after 
                the date of enactment of the Act, the President shall'' 
                and inserting ``The President shall, as appropriate,''; 
                and
                    (B) by striking ``first'' after ``for which 
                requirements will be''; and
            (2) in paragraph (2)--
                    (A) by striking ``any one, or any combination, of 
                the following:'' and inserting ``forms of security, 
                including''; and
                    (B) by striking ``or qualification'' and inserting 
                ``and qualification''.

SEC. 4. REPORT TO CONGRESS REGARDING FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 
              REQUIREMENTS.

    Section 108(b) of the Comprehensive Environmental Response, 
Compensation, and Liability Act of 1980 (42 U.S.C. 9608(b)) is further 
amended by adding at the end the following:
    ``(6) The President may not promulgate any financial responsibility 
requirement under this subsection without first submitting to Congress 
a report--
            ``(A) describing each facility or class of facilities to be 
        covered by such requirement;
            ``(B) describing the development of such requirement, why 
        the facility or class of facilities proposed to be covered by 
        such requirement present the highest level of risk of injury, 
        and why the facility or class of facilities is not already 
        covered by adequate financial responsibility requirements;
            ``(C) describing the financial responsibility requirements 
        promulgated by States or other Federal agencies for the 
        facility or class of facilities to be covered by the financial 
        responsibility requirement proposed under this subsection and 
        explaining why the requirement proposed under this subsection 
        is necessary;
            ``(D) describing the exposure to the Fund for response 
        costs resulting from the facility or class of facilities 
        proposed to be covered; and
            ``(E) describing the capacity of the financial and credit 
        markets to provide instruments of financial responsibility 
        necessary to meet such requirement.
The President shall update any report submitted under this paragraph to 
reflect any revision of the facilities or classes of facilities to be 
covered by a financial responsibility requirement that is the subject 
of such report.''.

SEC. 5. PREEMPTION OF FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REQUIREMENTS.

    Section 114(d) of the Comprehensive Environmental Response, 
Compensation, and Liability Act of 1980 (42 U.S.C. 9614(d)) is amended 
to read as follows:
    ``(d) No owner or operator of a vessel or facility who establishes 
and maintains evidence of financial responsibility associated with the 
production, transportation, treatment, storage, or disposal of 
hazardous substances pursuant to financial responsibility requirements 
under any State law or regulation, or any other Federal law or 
regulation, shall be required to establish or maintain evidence of 
financial responsibility under this title, unless the President 
determines, after notice and opportunity for public comment, that in 
the event of a release, such other Federal or State financial 
responsibility requirements are insufficient to cover likely response 
costs under section 104. Except as provided in this subsection, 
evidence of compliance with such other Federal or State financial 
responsibility requirements shall be accepted by the President in lieu 
of compliance with any requirement for financial responsibility 
promulgated under this title.''.
                                 <all>
