
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H. Res. 766 Engrossed in House (EH)]

H. Res. 766

                In the House of Representatives, U. S.,

                                                      December 3, 2014.
    Resolved, That upon adoption of this resolution it shall be in order to 
consider in the House the bill (H.R. 5771) to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
1986 to extend certain expiring provisions and make technical corrections, and 
for other purposes. All points of order against consideration of the bill are 
waived. The amendment printed in part A of the report of the Committee on Rules 
accompanying this resolution shall be considered as adopted. The bill, as 
amended, shall be considered as read. All points of order against provisions in 
the bill, as amended, are waived. The previous question shall be considered as 
ordered on the bill, as amended, and on any further amendment thereto, to final 
passage without intervening motion except: (1) one hour of debate equally 
divided and controlled by the chair and ranking minority member of the Committee 
on Ways and Means; and (2) one motion to recommit with or without instructions.
    Sec. 2.  Upon adoption of this resolution it shall be in order to consider 
in the House the bill (H.R. 647) to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to 
provide for the tax treatment of ABLE accounts established under State programs 
for the care of family members with disabilities, and for other purposes. All 
points of order against consideration of the bill are waived. In lieu of the 
amendment in the nature of a substitute recommended by the Committee on Ways and 
Means now printed in the bill, the amendment in the nature of a substitute 
printed in part B of the report of the Committee on Rules accompanying this 
resolution shall be considered as adopted. The bill, as amended, shall be 
considered as read. All points of order against provisions in the bill, as 
amended, are waived. The previous question shall be considered as ordered on the 
bill, as amended, and on any further amendment thereto, to final passage without 
intervening motion except: (1) one hour of debate equally divided and controlled 
by the chair and ranking minority member of the Committee on Ways and Means; and 
(2) one motion to recommit with or without instructions.
    Sec. 3.  In the engrossment of H.R. 5771 the Clerk shall--
     (a) add the text of H.R. 647, as passed by the House, as new matter at the 
end of H.R. 5771;
    (b) conform the title of H.R. 5771 to reflect the addition of H.R. 647, as 
passed by the House, to the engrossment;
    (c) assign appropriate designations to provisions within the engrossment; 
and
    (d) conform cross-references and provisions for short titles within the 
engrossment.
            Attest:

                                                                          Clerk.
