
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 6 Reported in House (RH)]

                                                 Union Calendar No. 353
113th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                 H. R. 6

                          [Report No. 113-477]

  To provide for expedited approval of exportation of natural gas to 
      World Trade Organization countries, and for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                             March 6, 2014

Mr. Gardner (for himself, Mr. Ryan of Ohio, Mr. Upton, Mr. Shimkus, Mr. 
 Whitfield, Mr. Barton, Mr. Olson, Mrs. McMorris Rodgers, Mr. Guthrie, 
Mrs. Ellmers, Mr. Gingrey of Georgia, Mr. Burgess, Mr. Johnson of Ohio, 
    Mr. Lance, Mr. Cassidy, Mr. Scalise, Mr. Latta, Mr. Griffith of 
Virginia, Mr. Pitts, Mr. Rogers of Michigan, Mr. Hall, Mr. Turner, Mr. 
  Boustany, and Mr. Womack) introduced the following bill; which was 
            referred to the Committee on Energy and Commerce

                             June 19, 2014

   Additional sponsors: Mr. Thornberry, Mr. Conaway, Mr. Cramer, Mr. 
 McCaul, Mr. Royce, Mr. Hunter, Mr. Franks of Arizona, Mr. Hensarling, 
Mr. Farenthold, Mr. Neugebauer, Mrs. Capito, Mr. Coffman, Mr. Dent, Mr. 
  Bridenstine, Mrs. Black, Mr. Costa, Mr. Sessions, Mr. Stivers, Mr. 
 Culberson, Mr. Meadows, Mr. Collins of New York, Mrs. Blackburn, Mr. 
    Weber of Texas, Mr. Terry, Mrs. Brooks of Indiana, Mr. Kelly of 
Pennsylvania, Mr. Schweikert, Mr. Gosar, Mr. Marchant, Mr. Flores, Mr. 
 Barletta, Mr. Palazzo, Mrs. Lummis, Mr. Thompson of Pennsylvania, Mr. 
  Gene Green of Texas, Mr. Renacci, Mr. Kline, Mr. Hinojosa, and Mr. 
                                Lamborn

                             June 19, 2014

  Reported with an amendment, committed to the Committee of the Whole 
       House on the State of the Union, and ordered to be printed
 [Strike out all after the enacting clause and insert the part printed 
                               in italic]


_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
  To provide for expedited approval of exportation of natural gas to 
      World Trade Organization countries, and for other purposes.


 


    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

<DELETED>SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.</DELETED>

<DELETED>    This Act may be cited as the ``Domestic Prosperity and 
Global Freedom Act''.</DELETED>

<DELETED>SEC. 2. AMENDMENTS.</DELETED>

<DELETED>    Section 3(c) of the Natural Gas Act (15 U.S.C. 717b(c)) is 
amended--</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    (1) by inserting ``(1)'' before ``For 
        purposes'';</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    (2) by striking ``a nation with which there is in 
        effect a free trade agreement requiring national treatment for 
        trade in natural gas'' and inserting ``a World Trade 
        Organization member nation''; and</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    (3) by adding at the end the following:</DELETED>
<DELETED>    ``(2) For purposes of this subsection, the term `World 
Trade Organization member nation' means a country described in section 
2(10) of the Uruguay Round Agreements Act (19 U.S.C. 
3501(10)).''.</DELETED>

<DELETED>SEC. 3. PENDING APPLICATIONS.</DELETED>

<DELETED>    Any application for authorization to export natural gas 
under section 3 of the Natural Gas Act (15 U.S.C. 717b) for which a 
notice has been published in the Federal Register before March 6, 2014, 
shall be granted without modification or delay.</DELETED>

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Domestic Prosperity and Global 
Freedom Act''.

SEC. 2. ACTION ON APPLICATIONS.

    (a) Decision Deadline.--The Department of Energy shall issue a 
decision on any application for authorization to export natural gas 
under section 3 of the Natural Gas Act (15 U.S.C. 717b) not later than 
90 days after the later of--
            (1) the end of the comment period for such decision as set 
        forth in the applicable notice published in the Federal 
        Register; or
            (2) the date of enactment of this Act.
    (b) Judicial Action.--(1) The United States Court of Appeals for 
the circuit in which the export facility will be located pursuant to an 
application described in subsection (a) shall have original and 
exclusive jurisdiction over any civil action for the review of --
            (A) an order issued by the Department of Energy with 
        respect to such application; or
            (B) the Department of Energy's failure to issue a decision 
        on such application.
    (2) If the Court in a civil action described in paragraph (1) finds 
that the Department of Energy has failed to issue a decision on the 
application as required under subsection (a), the Court shall order the 
Department of Energy to issue such decision not later than 30 days 
after the Court's order.
    (3) The Court shall set any civil action brought under this 
subsection for expedited consideration and shall set the matter on the 
docket as soon as practical after the filing date of the initial 
pleading.

SEC. 3. PUBLIC DISCLOSURE OF EXPORT DESTINATIONS.

    Section 3 of the Natural Gas Act (15 U.S.C. 717b) is amended by 
adding at the end the following:
    ``(g) Public Disclosure of LNG Export Destinations.--As a condition 
for approval of any authorization to export LNG, the Secretary of 
Energy shall require the applicant to publicly disclose the specific 
destination or destinations of any such authorized LNG exports.''.
                                                 Union Calendar No. 353

113th CONGRESS

  2d Session

                                H. R. 6

                          [Report No. 113-477]

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL

  To provide for expedited approval of exportation of natural gas to 
      World Trade Organization countries, and for other purposes.

_______________________________________________________________________

                             June 19, 2014

  Reported with an amendment, committed to the Committee of the Whole 
       House on the State of the Union, and ordered to be printed
