
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 817 Introduced in House (IH)]

113th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                H. R. 817

   To further the mission of the Global Justice Information Sharing 
 Initiative Advisory Committee by continuing its development of policy 
  recommendations and technical solutions on information sharing and 
   interoperability, and enhancing its pursuit of benefits and cost 
    savings for local, State, tribal, and Federal justice agencies.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                           February 25, 2013

 Mr. Smith of Washington (for himself and Mr. Reichert) introduced the 
  following bill; which was referred to the Committee on the Judiciary

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
   To further the mission of the Global Justice Information Sharing 
 Initiative Advisory Committee by continuing its development of policy 
  recommendations and technical solutions on information sharing and 
   interoperability, and enhancing its pursuit of benefits and cost 
    savings for local, State, tribal, and Federal justice agencies.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Department of Justice Global 
Advisory Committee Authorization Act of 2013''.

SEC. 2. GLOBAL JUSTICE INFORMATION SHARING INITIATIVE ADVISORY 
              COMMITTEE.

    (a) Definition.--In this Act, the term ``Committee'' means the 
Global Justice Information Sharing Initiative (Global) Advisory 
Committee established by the Attorney General.
    (b) Authorization.--Notwithstanding section 14(a)(2) of the Federal 
Advisory Committee Act (5 U.S.C. App.), the Committee shall not 
terminate unless terminated by an Act of Congress. The Attorney General 
is authorized to provide technical and financial assistance and support 
services to the Committee to carry out the activities of the Committee, 
including the activities described in subsection (c).
    (c) Activities.--In addition to any activities assigned to the 
Committee by the Attorney General, the Committee shall--
            (1) gather views from agencies of local, State, and tribal 
        governments and the Federal Government and other entities that 
        work to support public safety and justice;
            (2) recommend to the Attorney General measures to improve 
        the administration of justice and protect the public by 
        promoting practices and technologies for database 
        interoperability and the secure sharing of justice and public 
        safety information between local, State, and tribal governments 
        and the Federal Government; and
            (3) submit to Congress an annual report regarding issues 
        considered by the Committee and recommendations made to the 
        Attorney General by the Committee.
    (d) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that local, 
State, and tribal governments and other relevant entities should use 
the recommendations developed and disseminated by the Committee in 
accordance with this Act to evaluate, improve, and develop effective 
strategies and technologies to improve public safety and information 
sharing.
    (e) Information From DOJ Funding Applicants.--
            (1) In general.--Beginning on the date that is one year 
        from the date of enactment of this Act, the Attorney General 
        shall require that any applicant for a funding solicitation 
        from the Department of Justice for the implementation of an 
        information sharing solution shall include within the 
        application for such funding--
                    (A) how the information sharing solution would 
                comply with applicable standards endorsed by the 
                Committee; or
                    (B) in the case that such information sharing 
                solution would not comply with such standards, the 
                reason for such non-compliance.
            (2) Information not to affect award decisions.--Information 
        provided by an applicant pursuant to paragraph (1) shall not 
        affect any decision for making an award to such applicant for 
        the implementation of an information sharing solution unless 
        the agency making such award specifically requires use of 
        applicable endorsed standards or specifications as a condition 
        for accepting such award.
            (3) Regulations.--The Attorney General is authorized to 
        issue such regulations as may be necessary to carry out the 
        provisions of this subsection.

SEC. 3. REPORT OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL ON INFORMATION SHARING BETWEEN 
              CORRECTIONS AGENCIES, LAW ENFORCEMENT AGENCIES, AND THE 
              INTERSTATE COMMISSION FOR ADULT OFFENDER SUPERVISION.

    (a) Review.--The Attorney General, based on input from local, 
State, and tribal governments through the Committee and other 
components of the Department of Justice, shall review the state of 
information sharing between corrections and law enforcement agencies of 
local, State, and tribal governments and of the Federal Government.
    (b) Contents.--The review by the Attorney General under subsection 
(a) shall--
            (1) identify policy and technical barriers to effective 
        information sharing;
            (2) identify best practices for effective information 
        sharing; and
            (3) assess ways for information sharing to improve the 
        awareness and safety of law enforcement and corrections 
        officials, including information sharing by the Interstate 
        Commission for Adult Offenders Supervision.
    (c) Report.--Not later than 1 year after the date of enactment of 
this Act, the Attorney General shall submit to Congress a report 
regarding the review under this section, including a discussion of the 
recommendations of the Committee and the efforts of the Department of 
Justice to address the recommendations.
                                 <all>
