
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 287 Introduced in House (IH)]

113th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                H. R. 287

 To require ratings label on video games and to prohibit the sales and 
             rentals of adult-rated video games to minors.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                            January 15, 2013

 Mr. Matheson introduced the following bill; which was referred to the 
                    Committee on Energy and Commerce

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
 To require ratings label on video games and to prohibit the sales and 
             rentals of adult-rated video games to minors.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Video Games Ratings Enforcement 
Act''.

SEC. 2. RATING LABEL REQUIREMENT FOR VIDEO GAMES.

    (a) Conduct Prohibited.--It shall be unlawful for any person to 
ship or otherwise distribute in interstate commerce, or to sell or 
rent, a video game that does not contain a rating label, in a clear and 
conspicuous location on the outside packaging of the video game, 
containing an age-based content rating determined by the Entertainment 
Software Ratings Board.
    (b) Requirement of Retailers To Post Ratings Information.--Not 
later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the 
Federal Trade Commission shall promulgate rules requiring all retail 
establishments engaged in the sale of video games to display, in a 
clear and conspicuous location, information about the content rating 
system of the Entertainment Software Ratings Board. Such rules shall 
prescribe the information required to be displayed concerning the basic 
age-based content ratings of such Board.

SEC. 3. PROHIBITION ON SALES AND RENTALS OF ADULT-RATED VIDEO GAMES TO 
              MINORS.

    It shall be unlawful for any person to sell or rent, or attempt to 
sell or rent--
            (1) any video game containing a content rating of ``Adults 
        Only'' (as determined by the Entertainment Software Ratings 
        Board) to any person under the age of 18; or
            (2) any video game containing a content rating of 
        ``Mature'' (as determined by such Board) to any person under 
        the age of 17.

SEC. 4. ENFORCEMENT BY THE FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION.

    (a) Unfair or Deceptive Act or Practice.--A violation of sections 2 
or 3 shall be treated as a violation of a rule defining an unfair or 
deceptive act or practice prescribed under section 18(a)(1)(B) of the 
Federal Trade Commission Act (15 U.S.C. 57a(a)(1)(B)). The Federal 
Trade Commission shall enforce this Act in the same manner, by the same 
means, and with the same jurisdiction as though all applicable terms 
and provisions of the Federal Trade Commission Act were incorporated 
into and made a part of this Act.
    (b) Penalty.--Notwithstanding section 5(m) of the Federal Trade 
Commission Act (15 U.S.C. 45(m)), any person who violates section 2 or 
3 of this Act shall be subject to a civil penalty of not more than 
$5,000 per violation.
                                 <all>
