
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 3304 Introduced in House (IH)]

113th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                H. R. 3304

 To authorize and request the President to award the Medal of Honor to 
Bennie G. Adkins and Donald P. Sloat of the United States Army for acts 
of valor during the Vietnam Conflict and to authorize the award of the 
     Medal of Honor to certain other veterans who were previously 
              recommended for award of the Medal of Honor.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                            October 22, 2013

 Mr. Deutch (for himself, Mr. Rogers of Alabama, Mr. Bridenstine, Mr. 
Rooney, Mr. Aderholt, Mr. Bachus, Mr. Bishop of Utah, Ms. Bordallo, Mr. 
Boustany, Mr. Brady of Pennsylvania, Mr. Brooks of Alabama, Mr. Carson 
of Indiana, Mr. Cartwright, Mr. Castro of Texas, Mr. Cole, Mr. Conaway, 
Mr. Cook, Mr. Cooper, Mr. Crowley, Mrs. Davis of California, Mr. Engel, 
Mr. Enyart, Mr. Fincher, Mr. Flores, Mr. Forbes, Mr. Franks of Arizona, 
   Mr. Gallego, Mr. Garcia, Mr. Gibson, Mr. Grayson, Mr. Hastings of 
Florida, Mr. Holt, Mr. Hunter, Mr. Jones, Mr. Kennedy, Mr. Kildee, Mr. 
  Kilmer, Mr. Lamborn, Mr. Langevin, Mr. LoBiondo, Mr. Loebsack, Mr. 
 McKeon, Ms. Meng, Mr. Miller of Florida, Mrs. Miller of Michigan, Mr. 
  Murphy of Florida, Mr. Nugent, Mr. Olson, Mr. Peterson, Mr. Rigell, 
 Mrs. Roby, Ms. Ros-Lehtinen, Mr. Runyan, Mr. Schiff, Mr. Schweikert, 
 Mr. Austin Scott of Georgia, Ms. Sewell of Alabama, Ms. Shea-Porter, 
 Mr. Shuster, Mr. Stewart, Mr. Stockman, Mr. Thornberry, Ms. Tsongas, 
Mr. Turner, Mrs. Wagner, Ms. Wasserman Schultz, Mr. Waxman, Mr. Welch, 
 Mr. Wilson of South Carolina, Ms. Wilson of Florida, Mr. Wittman, Ms. 
 Hanabusa, Mr. King of New York, Mr. Hanna, Mrs. Noem, Ms. Frankel of 
 Florida, Mr. Barber, Mr. Larsen of Washington, and Mr. Rice of South 
  Carolina) introduced the following bill; which was referred to the 
                      Committee on Armed Services

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
 To authorize and request the President to award the Medal of Honor to 
Bennie G. Adkins and Donald P. Sloat of the United States Army for acts 
of valor during the Vietnam Conflict and to authorize the award of the 
     Medal of Honor to certain other veterans who were previously 
              recommended for award of the Medal of Honor.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. AUTHORIZATION AND REQUEST FOR AWARD OF MEDAL OF HONOR TO 
              BENNIE G. ADKINS FOR ACTS OF VALOR DURING THE VIETNAM 
              CONFLICT.

    (a) Authorization.--Notwithstanding the time limitations specified 
in section 3744 of title 10, United States Code, or any other time 
limitation with respect to the awarding of certain medals to persons 
who served in the Armed Forces, the President is authorized and 
requested to award the Medal of Honor under section 3741 of such title 
to Bennie G. Adkins of the United States Army for the acts of valor 
during the Vietnam Conflict described in subsection (b).
    (b) Acts of Valor Described.--The acts of valor referred to in 
subsection (a) are the actions of then Sergeant First Class Bennie G. 
Adkins of the United States Army serving with Special Forces Detachment 
A-102 from March 9 to 12, 1966, during the Vietnam Conflict for which 
he was originally awarded the Distinguished Service Cross.

SEC. 2. AUTHORIZATION AND REQUEST FOR AWARD OF MEDAL OF HONOR TO DONALD 
              P. SLOAT FOR ACTS OF VALOR DURING THE VIETNAM CONFLICT.

    (a) Authorization.--Notwithstanding the time limitations specified 
in section 3744 of title 10, United States Code, or any other time 
limitation with respect to the awarding of certain medals to persons 
who served in the Armed Forces, the President is authorized and 
requested to award the Medal of Honor under section 3741 of such title 
to Donald P. Sloat of the United States Army for the acts of valor 
during the Vietnam Conflict described in subsection (b).
    (b) Acts of Valor Described.--The acts of valor referred to in 
subsection (a) are the actions of then Specialist Four Donald P. Sloat 
of the United States Army serving with 3rd Platoon, Delta Company, 2nd 
Battalion, 1st Infantry, 196th Light Infantry Brigade, Americal 
Division on January 17, 1970, during the Vietnam Conflict.

SEC. 3. AUTHORIZATION FOR AWARD OF MEDAL OF HONOR TO FORMER MEMBERS OF 
              THE ARMED FORCES PREVIOUSLY RECOMMENDED FOR AWARD OF THE 
              MEDAL OF HONOR.

    Section 552(e) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
Year 2002 (Public Law 107-107; 10 U.S.C. 3741 note) is amended--
            (1) by inserting ``(1)'' after ``Honor.--''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
    ``(2) In addition to the authority provided by paragraph (1), a 
Medal of Honor may be awarded to a veteran of the Armed Forces who, 
although not a Jewish-American war veteran or Hispanic-American war 
veteran described in subsection (b), was identified during the review 
of service records conducted under subsection (a) and regarding whom 
the Secretary of Defense submitted, before January 1, 2014, a 
recommendation to the President that the President award the Medal of 
Honor to that veteran.''.
                                 <all>
