
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 3432 Introduced in House (IH)]

113th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                H. R. 3432

To expedite the planning and implementation of salvage timber sales as 
 part of Forest Service and Department of the Interior restoration and 
    rehabilitation activities for lands within the Gila and Lincoln 
National Forests and for Bureau of Land Management lands in New Mexico 
  adversely impacted by the 2012 and 2013 fire seasons, and for other 
                               purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                            October 30, 2013

  Mr. Pearce introduced the following bill; which was referred to the 
 Committee on Agriculture, and in addition to the Committee on Natural 
 Resources, for a period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, 
 in each case for consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
                jurisdiction of the committee concerned

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
To expedite the planning and implementation of salvage timber sales as 
 part of Forest Service and Department of the Interior restoration and 
    rehabilitation activities for lands within the Gila and Lincoln 
National Forests and for Bureau of Land Management lands in New Mexico 
  adversely impacted by the 2012 and 2013 fire seasons, and for other 
                               purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``New Mexico Wildland Fire Emergency 
Salvage Act of 2013''.

SEC. 2. EXPEDITED SALVAGE TIMBER SALES IN RESPONSE TO THE SILVER, 
              LITTLE BEAR, AND WHITEWATER-BALDY COMPLEX FIRES IN NEW 
              MEXICO.

    (a) Salvage Timber Sales Required.--As part of the restoration and 
rehabilitation activities undertaken on lands within the Gila National 
Forest and Lincoln National Forest and on Bureau of Land Management 
lands adversely impacted by the 2012 Little Bear and Whitewater-Baldy 
Complex Fires and the 2013 Silver Fire in New Mexico, the Secretary of 
Agriculture, with respect to the affected National Forest System lands, 
and the Secretary of the Interior, with respect to affected Bureau of 
Land Management lands, shall promptly plan and implement salvage timber 
sales of dead, damaged, or downed timber resulting from those 
wildfires.
    (b) Legal Sufficiency.--Due to the extraordinary severity of the 
wildfires referred to in subsection (a), salvage timber sales conducted 
under such subsection shall proceed immediately and to completion 
notwithstanding any other provision of law, including the National 
Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 4321 et seq.), section 14 
of the National Forest Management Act of 1976 (16 U.S.C. 472a), the 
Forest and Rangeland Renewable Resources Planning Act of 1974 (16 
U.S.C. 1600 et seq.), the Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 
1976 (43 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.), and laws related to the management of 
timber on the lands covered by such subsection.
    (c) Administrative and Judicial Review.--Salvage timber sales 
conducted under subsection (a) shall not be subject to--
            (1) administrative review, including, in the case of the 
        Forest Service, the notice, comment, and appeal requirements of 
        section 322 of the Department of the Interior and Related 
        Agencies Appropriations Act, 1993 (Public Law 102-381; 16 
        U.S.C. 1612 note); or
            (2) judicial review in any court of the United States.
    (d) Limitation; Rule of Construction.--Nothing in this section 
shall be construed in a manner that would affect the land management 
plan applicable to any area designated as a component of the National 
Wilderness Preservation System under section 3 of the Wilderness Act 
(16 U.S.C. 1132) and containing lands covered by subsection (a).
                                 <all>
