
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 692 Introduced in House (IH)]

113th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                H. R. 692

  To provide protection for certain Federal employees with respect to 
implementation of the June 15, 2012, memorandum from Janet Napolitano, 
Secretary of Homeland Security, regarding the exercise of prosecutorial 
discretion with respect to individuals who came to the United States as 
                               children.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                           February 14, 2013

 Mr. Barletta introduced the following bill; which was referred to the 
                     Committee on Homeland Security

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
  To provide protection for certain Federal employees with respect to 
implementation of the June 15, 2012, memorandum from Janet Napolitano, 
Secretary of Homeland Security, regarding the exercise of prosecutorial 
discretion with respect to individuals who came to the United States as 
                               children.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Protecting Department of Homeland 
Security Personnel Act of 2013''.

SEC. 2. PROTECTION FOR INDIVIDUALS WHO REFUSE TO CARRY OUT UNLAWFUL 
              PROVISIONS OF THE MEMORANDUM.

    (a) In General.--Notwithstanding any other provision of law, no 
adverse personnel action, including employee termination, may be taken 
against a protected individual which is based, in whole or in part, on 
the refusal of such individual to carry out a provision of the 
memorandum described in subsection (b) that has been determined by the 
Congress to be in violation of the Immigration and Nationality Act (8 
U.S.C. 1101 et seq.).
    (b) Memorandum Described.--This Act applies with respect to the 
June 15, 2012, memorandum from Janet Napolitano, Secretary of Homeland 
Security, regarding the exercise of prosecutorial discretion with 
respect to individuals who came to the United States as children.
    (c) Protected Individuals.--For purposes of this Act, the term 
``protected individual'' means an individual employed in or under any 
of the following:
            (1) U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement.
            (2) U.S. Customs and Border Protection.
            (3) U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services.
    (d) Adverse Actions Include Denial of Benefits.--The personnel 
actions prohibited by this Act include the withholding or denial of a 
promotion, an increase in pay, or other similar benefit.
                                 <all>
