
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[S. 1642 Introduced in Senate (IS)]

113th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                S. 1642

          To permit the continuation of certain health plans.


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                            November 4, 2013

  Ms. Landrieu (for herself and Mr. Manchin) introduced the following 
  bill; which was read twice and referred to the Committee on Finance

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
          To permit the continuation of certain health plans.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Keeping the Affordable Care Act 
Promise Act''.

SEC. 2. CONTINUATION OF GRANDFATHERED HEALTH PLANS.

    Notwithstanding any other provision of law, an individual may elect 
to continue enrollment under the health insurance coverage (offered in 
the individual market) in which such individual was enrolled on 
December 31, 2013, if such individual meets such other eligibility 
requirements (such as payment of premiums) as are applied with respect 
to such coverage, unless such issuer cancels all coverage offered in 
such market and ceases operations as a health insurance issuer. Any 
such coverage shall be deemed to be a grandfathered health plan for 
purposes of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (or an 
amendment made by that Act). Coverage to which this section applies 
shall be deemed to be minimum essential coverage for purposes of 
section 5000A of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986.

SEC. 3. TRANSPARENCY OF GRANDFATHERED HEALTH PLAN NOTIFICATIONS.

    Part 2 of subtitle C of title I of the Patient Protection and 
Affordable Care Act (42 U.S.C. 18011 et seq.) is amended by inserting 
after section 1251 the following:

``SEC. 1251A. TRANSPARENCY OF GRANDFATHERED HEALTH PLAN NOTIFICATIONS.

    ``(a) In General.--A health insurance issuer that offers health 
insurance coverage in the individual market shall annually, at the time 
of enrollment and renewal, provide enrollees with a notice that 
states--
            ``(1) if applicable, the reasons that such coverage does 
        not meet the requirements under this Act (or amendment made by 
        this Act) for a qualified health plan, including citations to 
        the provisions of this Act involved;
            ``(2) that the enrollee has the right to continue to enroll 
        in such coverage; and
            ``(3) that the enrollee has the right to enroll in a 
        qualified health plan offered through an Exchange and 
        instruction on how to access such Exchange.
    ``(b) Cancellation Notices.--A notification provided by a health 
insurance issuer, that offers health insurance coverage in the 
individual market, to an enrollee stating that such coverage is 
cancelled for such enrollee shall contain a statement of the reasons 
for such cancellation, including a reference to any provision of this 
Act (or an amendment made by this Act) that such issuer relied upon in 
making the determination to cancel such coverage.
    ``(c) Application.--Subsection (b) shall apply beginning on the 
date of enactment of this section, except that with respect to a health 
plan that has provided a notification of cancellation prior to such 
date that has not yet taken effect, an enrollee may elect to continue 
such coverage under such plan if the issuer continues to offer such 
plan as provided for in section 2 of the Keeping the Affordable Care 
Act Promise Act and the issuer shall provide a subsequent notification 
to the enrollee that states--
            ``(1) that such plan will remain in effect at the option of 
        the enrollee; and
            ``(2) the reasons that such plan does not otherwise meet 
        the requirements under this Act for a qualified health plan.''.
                                 <all>
