
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 5682 Received in Senate (RDS)]

113th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                H. R. 5682


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                           November 17, 2014

                                Received

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 AN ACT


 
                  To approve the Keystone XL Pipeline.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. KEYSTONE XL APPROVAL.

    (a) In General.--TransCanada Keystone Pipeline, L.P. may construct, 
connect, operate, and maintain the pipeline and cross-border facilities 
described in the application filed on May 4, 2012, by TransCanada 
Corporation to the Department of State (including any subsequent 
revision to the pipeline route within the State of Nebraska required or 
authorized by the State of Nebraska).
    (b) Environmental Impact Statement.--The Final Supplemental 
Environmental Impact Statement issued by the Secretary of State in 
January 2014, regarding the pipeline referred to in subsection (a), and 
the environmental analysis, consultation, and review described in that 
document (including appendices) shall be considered to fully satisfy--
            (1) all requirements of the National Environmental Policy 
        Act of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 4321 et seq.); and
            (2) any other provision of law that requires Federal agency 
        consultation or review (including the consultation or review 
        required under section 7(a) of the Endangered Species Act of 
        1973 (16 U.S.C. 1536(a))) with respect to the pipeline and 
        facilities referred to in subsection (a).
    (c) Permits.--Any Federal permit or authorization issued before the 
date of enactment of this Act for the pipeline and cross-border 
facilities referred to in subsection (a) shall remain in effect.
    (d) Federal Judicial Review.--Any legal challenge to a Federal 
agency action regarding the pipeline and cross-border facilities 
described in subsection (a), and the related facilities in the United 
States, that are approved by this Act, and any permit, right-of-way, or 
other action taken to construct or complete the project pursuant to 
Federal law, shall only be subject to judicial review on direct appeal 
to the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia 
Circuit.
    (e) Private Property Savings Clause.--Nothing in this Act alters 
any Federal, State, or local process or condition in effect on the date 
of enactment of this Act that is necessary to secure access from an 
owner of private property to construct the pipeline and cross-border 
facilities described in subsection (a).

            Passed the House of Representatives November 14, 2014.

            Attest:

                                                 KAREN L. HAAS,

                                                                 Clerk.
