
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 4681 Introduced in House (IH)]

113th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                H. R. 4681

    To authorize appropriations for fiscal years 2014 and 2015 for 
 intelligence and intelligence-related activities of the United States 
     Government, the Community Management Account, and the Central 
  Intelligence Agency Retirement and Disability System, and for other 
                               purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                              May 20, 2014

    Mr. Rogers of Michigan introduced the following bill; which was 
  referred to the Select Committee on Intelligence (Permanent Select)

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
    To authorize appropriations for fiscal years 2014 and 2015 for 
 intelligence and intelligence-related activities of the United States 
     Government, the Community Management Account, and the Central 
  Intelligence Agency Retirement and Disability System, and for other 
                               purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Intelligence Authorization Act for 
Fiscal Years 2014 and 2015''.

                    TITLE I--INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES

SEC. 101. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.

    Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for fiscal years 
2014 and 2015 for the conduct of the intelligence and intelligence-
related activities of the following elements of the United States 
Government:
            (1) The Office of the Director of National Intelligence.
            (2) The Central Intelligence Agency.
            (3) The Department of Defense.
            (4) The Defense Intelligence Agency.
            (5) The National Security Agency.
            (6) The Department of the Army, the Department of the Navy, 
        and the Department of the Air Force.
            (7) The Coast Guard.
            (8) The Department of State.
            (9) The Department of the Treasury.
            (10) The Department of Energy.
            (11) The Department of Justice.
            (12) The Federal Bureau of Investigation.
            (13) The Drug Enforcement Administration.
            (14) The National Reconnaissance Office.
            (15) The National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency.
            (16) The Department of Homeland Security.

SEC. 102. CLASSIFIED SCHEDULE OF AUTHORIZATIONS.

    (a) Specifications of Amounts and Personnel Levels.--
            (1) Fiscal year 2014.--The amounts authorized to be 
        appropriated under section 101 and, subject to section 103, the 
        authorized personnel ceilings as of September 30, 2014, for the 
        conduct of the intelligence activities of the elements listed 
        in paragraphs (1) through (16) of section 101, are those 
        specified in the classified Schedule of Authorizations for 
        fiscal year 2014 prepared to accompany the bill H.R. __ of the 
        One Hundred Thirteenth Congress.
            (2) Fiscal year 2015.--The amounts authorized to be 
        appropriated under section 101 and, subject to section 103, the 
        authorized personnel ceilings as of September 30, 2015, for the 
        conduct of the intelligence activities of the elements listed 
        in paragraphs (1) through (16) of section 101, are those 
        specified in the classified Schedule of Authorizations for 
        fiscal year 2015 prepared to accompany the bill H.R. __ of the 
        One Hundred Thirteenth Congress.
    (b) Availability of Classified Schedule of Authorizations.--
            (1) Availability.--The classified Schedules of 
        Authorizations referred to in subsection (a) shall be made 
        available to the Committee on Appropriations of the Senate, the 
        Committee on Appropriations of the House of Representatives, 
        and to the President.
            (2) Distribution by the president.--Subject to paragraph 
        (3), the President shall provide for suitable distribution of 
        the classified Schedules of Authorizations, or of appropriate 
        portions of the Schedules, within the executive branch.
            (3) Limits on disclosure.--The President shall not publicly 
        disclose the classified Schedules of Authorizations or any 
        portion of such Schedules except--
                    (A) as provided in section 601(a) of the 
                Implementing Recommendations of the 9/11 Commission Act 
                of 2007 (50 U.S.C. 3306(a));
                    (B) to the extent necessary to implement the 
                budget; or
                    (C) as otherwise required by law.

SEC. 103. PERSONNEL CEILING ADJUSTMENTS.

    (a) Authority for Increases.--The Director of National Intelligence 
may authorize employment of civilian personnel in excess of the number 
authorized for fiscal year 2014 or 2015 by the classified Schedules of 
Authorizations referred to in section 102(a) if the Director of 
National Intelligence determines that such action is necessary to the 
performance of important intelligence functions, except that the number 
of personnel employed in excess of the number authorized under such 
section may not, for any element of the intelligence community, exceed 
3 percent of the number of civilian personnel authorized under the 
Schedule for such element during the fiscal year covered by such 
Schedule.
    (b) Treatment of Certain Personnel.--The Director of National 
Intelligence shall establish guidelines that govern, for each element 
of the intelligence community, the treatment under the personnel levels 
authorized under section 102(a), including any exemption from such 
personnel levels, of employment or assignment in--
            (1) a student program, trainee program, or similar program;
            (2) a reserve corps or as a reemployed annuitant; or
            (3) details, joint duty, or long term, full-time training.
    (c) Notice to Congressional Intelligence Committees.--The Director 
of National Intelligence shall notify the congressional intelligence 
committees in writing at least 15 days prior to each exercise of an 
authority described in subsection (a).

SEC. 104. INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY MANAGEMENT ACCOUNT.

    (a) Authorization of Appropriations.--
            (1) Fiscal year 2014.--There is authorized to be 
        appropriated for the Intelligence Community Management Account 
        of the Director of National Intelligence for fiscal year 2014 
        the sum of $528,229,000. Within such amount, funds identified 
        in the classified Schedule of Authorizations referred to in 
        section 102(a) for advanced research and development shall 
        remain available until September 30, 2015.
            (2) Fiscal year 2015.--There is authorized to be 
        appropriated for the Intelligence Community Management Account 
        of the Director of National Intelligence for fiscal year 2015 
        the sum of [$__________]. Within such amount, funds identified 
        in the classified Schedule of Authorizations referred to in 
        section 102(a) for advanced research and development shall 
        remain available until September 30, 2016.
    (b) Authorized Personnel Levels.--The elements within the 
Intelligence Community Management Account of the Director of National 
Intelligence are authorized 855 positions as of September 30, 2014 and 
[___] positions as of September 30, 2015. Personnel serving in such 
elements may be permanent employees of the Office of the Director of 
National Intelligence or personnel detailed from other elements of the 
United States Government.
    (c) Classified Authorizations.--
            (1) Authorization of appropriations.--
                    (A) Fiscal year 2014.--In addition to amounts 
                authorized to be appropriated for the Intelligence 
                Community Management Account by subsection (a), there 
                are authorized to be appropriated for the Community 
                Management Account for fiscal year 2014 such additional 
                amounts as are specified in the classified Schedule of 
                Authorizations referred to in section 102(a). Such 
                additional amounts for advanced research and 
                development shall remain available until September 30, 
                2015.
                    (B) Fiscal year 2015.--In addition to amounts 
                authorized to be appropriated for the Intelligence 
                Community Management Account by subsection (a), there 
                are authorized to be appropriated for the Community 
                Management Account for fiscal year 2014 such additional 
                amounts as are specified in the classified Schedule of 
                Authorizations referred to in section 102(a). Such 
                additional amounts for advanced research and 
                development shall remain available until September 30, 
                2016.
            (2) Authorization of personnel.--
                    (A) Fiscal year 2014.--In addition to the personnel 
                authorized by subsection (b) for elements of the 
                Intelligence Community Management Account as of 
                September 30, 2014, there are authorized such 
                additional personnel for the Community Management 
                Account as of that date as are specified in the 
                classified Schedule of Authorizations referred to in 
                section 102(a).
                    (B) Fiscal year 2015.--In addition to the personnel 
                authorized by subsection (b) for elements of the 
                Intelligence Community Management Account as of 
                September 30, 2015, there are authorized such 
                additional personnel for the Community Management 
                Account as of that date as are specified in the 
                classified Schedule of Authorizations referred to in 
                section 102(a).

 TITLE II--CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY RETIREMENT AND DISABILITY SYSTEM

SEC. 201. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.

    There is authorized to be appropriated for the Central Intelligence 
Agency Retirement and Disability Fund--
            (1) $514,000,000 for fiscal year 2014; and
            (2) $__________ for fiscal year 2015.

                     TITLE III--GENERAL PROVISIONS

SEC. 301. INCREASE IN EMPLOYEE COMPENSATION AND BENEFITS AUTHORIZED BY 
              LAW.

    Appropriations authorized by this Act for salary, pay, retirement, 
and other benefits for Federal employees may be increased by such 
additional or supplemental amounts as may be necessary for increases in 
such compensation or benefits authorized by law.

SEC. 302. RESTRICTION ON CONDUCT OF INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES.

    The authorization of appropriations by this Act shall not be deemed 
to constitute authority for the conduct of any intelligence activity 
which is not otherwise authorized by the Constitution or the laws of 
the United States.
                                 <all>
