
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 4923 Referred in Senate (RFS)]

113th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                H. R. 4923


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                             July 14, 2014

  Received; read twice and referred to the Committee on Appropriations

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 AN ACT


 
  Making appropriations for energy and water development and related 
 agencies for the fiscal year ending September 30, 2015, and for other 
                               purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled, 
That the following sums are appropriated, out of any money in the 
Treasury not otherwise appropriated, for energy and water development 
and related agencies for the fiscal year ending September 30, 2015, and 
for other purposes, namely:

                   TITLE I--CORPS OF ENGINEERS--CIVIL

                         DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY

                       Corps of Engineers--Civil

    The following appropriations shall be expended under the direction 
of the Secretary of the Army and the supervision of the Chief of 
Engineers for authorized civil functions of the Department of the Army 
pertaining to river and harbor, flood and storm damage reduction, shore 
protection, aquatic ecosystem restoration, and related efforts.

                             investigations

    For expenses necessary where authorized by law for the collection 
and study of basic information pertaining to river and harbor, flood 
and storm damage reduction, shore protection, aquatic ecosystem 
restoration, and related needs; for surveys and detailed studies, and 
plans and specifications of proposed river and harbor, flood and storm 
damage reduction, shore protection, and aquatic ecosystem restoration, 
projects and related efforts prior to construction; for restudy of 
authorized projects; and for miscellaneous investigations, and, when 
authorized by law, surveys and detailed studies, and plans and 
specifications of projects prior to construction, $115,000,000, to 
remain available until expended.

                              construction

    For expenses necessary for the construction of river and harbor, 
flood and storm damage reduction, shore protection, aquatic ecosystem 
restoration, and related projects authorized by law; for conducting 
detailed studies, and plans and specifications, of such projects 
(including those involving participation by States, local governments, 
or private groups) authorized or made eligible for selection by law 
(but such detailed studies, and plans and specifications, shall not 
constitute a commitment of the Government to construction); 
$1,704,499,000 (increased by $500,000) (increased by $1,000,000) 
(increased by $5,000,000), to remain available until expended; of which 
such sums as are necessary to cover the Federal share of construction 
costs for facilities under the Dredged Material Disposal Facilities 
program shall be derived from the Harbor Maintenance Trust Fund as 
authorized by Public Law 104-303; and of which such sums as are 
necessary to cover one-half of the costs of construction, replacement, 
rehabilitation, and expansion of inland waterways projects shall be 
derived from the Inland Waterways Trust Fund, except as otherwise 
specifically provided for in law.

                   mississippi river and tributaries

    For expenses necessary for flood damage reduction projects and 
related efforts in the Mississippi River alluvial valley below Cape 
Girardeau, Missouri, as authorized by law, $260,000,000, to remain 
available until expended, of which such sums as are necessary to cover 
the Federal share of eligible operation and maintenance costs for 
inland harbors shall be derived from the Harbor Maintenance Trust Fund.

                       operation and maintenance

    For expenses necessary for the operation, maintenance, and care of 
existing river and harbor, flood and storm damage reduction, aquatic 
ecosystem restoration, and related projects authorized by law; 
providing security for infrastructure owned or operated by the Corps, 
including administrative buildings and laboratories; maintaining harbor 
channels provided by a State, municipality, or other public agency that 
serve essential navigation needs of general commerce, where authorized 
by law; surveying and charting northern and northwestern lakes and 
connecting waters; clearing and straightening channels; and removing 
obstructions to navigation, $2,905,000,000 (increased by $1,000,000) 
(increased by $57,600,000), to remain available until expended, of 
which such sums as are necessary to carry out the study authorized in 
section 6002 of the Water Resources Reform and Development Act of 2014; 
of which such sums as are necessary to cover the Federal share of 
eligible operation and maintenance costs for coastal harbors and 
channels, and for inland harbors shall be derived from the Harbor 
Maintenance Trust Fund; of which such sums as become available from the 
special account for the Corps of Engineers established by the Land and 
Water Conservation Fund Act of 1965 shall be derived from that account 
for resource protection, research, interpretation, and maintenance 
activities related to resource protection in the areas at which outdoor 
recreation is available; and of which such sums as become available 
from fees collected under section 217 of Public Law 104-303 shall be 
used to cover the cost of operation and maintenance of the dredged 
material disposal facilities for which such fees have been collected: 
Provided, That 1 percent of the total amount of funds provided for each 
of the programs, projects, or activities funded under this heading 
shall not be allocated to a field operating activity prior to the 
beginning of the fourth quarter of the fiscal year and shall be 
available for use by the Chief of Engineers to fund such emergency 
activities as the Chief of Engineers determines to be necessary and 
appropriate, and that the Chief of Engineers shall allocate during the 
fourth quarter any remaining funds which have not been used for 
emergency activities proportionally in accordance with the amounts 
provided for the programs, projects, or activities.

                           regulatory program

    For expenses necessary for administration of laws pertaining to 
regulation of navigable waters and wetlands, $200,000,000, to remain 
available until September 30, 2016.

            formerly utilized sites remedial action program

    For expenses necessary to clean up contamination from sites in the 
United States resulting from work performed as part of the Nation's 
early atomic energy program, $100,000,000, to remain available until 
expended.

                 flood control and coastal emergencies

    For expenses necessary to prepare for flood, hurricane, and other 
natural disasters and support emergency operations, repairs, and other 
activities in response to such disasters as authorized by law, 
$28,000,000, to remain available until expended.

                                expenses

    For expenses necessary for the supervision and general 
administration of the civil works program in the headquarters of the 
Corps of Engineers and the offices of the Division Engineers; and for 
costs of management and operation of the Humphreys Engineer Center 
Support Activity, the Institute for Water Resources, the United States 
Army Engineer Research and Development Center, and the United States 
Army Corps of Engineers Finance Center allocable to the civil works 
program, $178,000,000 (reduced by $1,000,000), to remain available 
until September 30, 2016, of which not to exceed $5,000 may be used for 
official reception and representation purposes and only during the 
current fiscal year: Provided, That no part of any other appropriation 
provided in this title shall be available to fund the civil works 
activities of the Office of the Chief of Engineers or the civil works 
executive direction and management activities of the division offices: 
Provided further, That any Flood Control and Coastal Emergencies 
appropriation may be used to fund the supervision and general 
administration of emergency operations, repairs, and other activities 
in response to any flood, hurricane, or other natural disaster.

     office of the assistant secretary of the army for civil works

    For the Office of the Assistant Secretary of the Army for Civil 
Works as authorized by 10 U.S.C. 3016(b)(3), $2,000,000, to remain 
available until September 30, 2016.

             GENERAL PROVISIONS--CORPS OF ENGINEERS--CIVIL

                     (including transfer of funds)

    Sec. 101. (a) None of the funds provided in this title shall be 
available for obligation or expenditure through a reprogramming of 
funds that--
            (1) creates or initiates a new program, project, or 
        activity;
            (2) eliminates a program, project, or activity;
            (3) increases funds or personnel for any program, project, 
        or activity for which funds are denied or restricted by this 
        Act;
            (4) reduces funds that are directed to be used for a 
        specific program, project, or activity by this Act;
            (5) increases funds for any program, project, or activity 
        by more than $2,000,000 or 10 percent, whichever is less; or
            (6) reduces funds for any program, project, or activity by 
        more than $2,000,000 or 10 percent, whichever is less.
    (b) Subsection (a)(1) shall not apply to any project or activity 
authorized under section 205 of the Flood Control Act of 1948, section 
14 of the Flood Control Act of 1946, section 208 of the Flood Control 
Act of 1954, section 107 of the River and Harbor Act of 1960, section 
103 of the River and Harbor Act of 1962, section 111 of the River and 
Harbor Act of 1968, section 1135 of the Water Resources Development Act 
of 1986, section 206 of the Water Resources Development Act of 1996, or 
section 204 of the Water Resources Development Act of 1992.
    (c) The Corps of Engineers shall submit reports on a quarterly 
basis to the Committees on Appropriations of the House of 
Representatives and the Senate detailing all the funds reprogrammed 
between programs, projects, activities, or categories of funding. The 
first quarterly report shall be submitted not later than 60 days after 
the date of enactment of this Act.
    Sec. 102.  None of the funds made available in this title may be 
used to award or modify any contract that commits funds beyond the 
amounts appropriated for that program, project, or activity that remain 
unobligated, except that such amounts may include any funds that have 
been made available through reprogramming pursuant to section 101.
    Sec. 103.  None of the funds in this Act, or previous Acts, making 
funds available for Energy and Water Development, shall be used to 
award any continuing contract that commits additional funding from the 
Inland Waterways Trust Fund unless or until such time that a long-term 
mechanism to enhance revenues in this Fund sufficient to meet the cost-
sharing authorized in the Water Resources Development Act of 1986 
(Public Law 99-662) is enacted.
    Sec. 104.  The Secretary of the Army may transfer to the Fish and 
Wildlife Service, and the Fish and Wildlife Service may accept and 
expend, up to $4,700,000 of funds provided in this title under the 
heading ``Operation and Maintenance'' to mitigate for fisheries lost 
due to Corps of Engineers projects.
    Sec. 105.  None of the funds made available in this or any other 
Act making appropriations for Energy and Water Development for any 
fiscal year may be used by the Corps of Engineers to develop, adopt, 
implement, administer, or enforce any change to the regulations in 
effect on October 1, 2012, pertaining to the definitions of the terms 
``fill material'' or ``discharge of fill material'' for the purposes of 
the Federal Water Pollution Control Act (33 U.S.C. 1251 et seq.).
    Sec. 106.  None of the funds made available in this or any other 
Act making appropriations for Energy and Water Development for any 
fiscal year may be used by the Corps of Engineers to develop, adopt, 
implement, administer, or enforce any change to the regulations and 
guidance in effect on October 1, 2012, pertaining to the definition of 
waters under the jurisdiction of the Federal Water Pollution Control 
Act (33 U.S.C. 1251 et seq.), including the provisions of the rules 
dated November 13, 1986, and August 25, 1993, relating to such 
jurisdiction, and the guidance documents dated January 15, 2003, and 
December 2, 2008, relating to such jurisdiction.
    Sec. 107.  As of the date of enactment of this Act and each fiscal 
year thereafter, the Secretary of the Army shall not promulgate or 
enforce any regulation that prohibits an individual from possessing a 
firearm, including an assembled or functional firearm, at a water 
resources development project covered under section 327.0 of title 36, 
Code of Federal Regulations (as in effect on the date of enactment of 
this Act), if--
            (1) the individual is not otherwise prohibited by law from 
        possessing the firearm; and
            (2) the possession of the firearm is in compliance with the 
        law of the State in which the water resources development 
        project is located.

                  TITLE II--DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR

                          Central Utah Project

                central utah project completion account

    For carrying out activities authorized by the Central Utah Project 
Completion Act, $9,874,000, to remain available until expended, of 
which $1,000,000 shall be deposited into the Utah Reclamation 
Mitigation and Conservation Account for use by the Utah Reclamation 
Mitigation and Conservation Commission: Provided, That of the amount 
provided under this heading, $1,300,000 shall be available until 
September 30, 2016, for necessary expenses incurred in carrying out 
related responsibilities of the Secretary of the Interior: Provided 
further, That for fiscal year 2015, of the amount made available to the 
Commission under this Act or any other Act, the Commission may use an 
amount not to exceed $1,500,000 for administrative expenses.

                         Bureau of Reclamation

    The following appropriations shall be expended to execute 
authorized functions of the Bureau of Reclamation:

                      water and related resources

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For management, development, and restoration of water and related 
natural resources and for related activities, including the operation, 
maintenance, and rehabilitation of reclamation and other facilities, 
participation in fulfilling related Federal responsibilities to Native 
Americans, and related grants to, and cooperative and other agreements 
with, State and local governments, federally recognized Indian tribes, 
and others, $856,351,000 (reduced by $1,000,000) (increased by 
$1,000,000) (reduced by $3,000,000) (increased by $3,000,000) 
(increased by $10,000,000), to remain available until expended, of 
which $25,000 shall be available for transfer to the Upper Colorado 
River Basin Fund and $6,840,000 shall be available for transfer to the 
Lower Colorado River Basin Development Fund; of which such amounts as 
may be necessary may be advanced to the Colorado River Dam Fund: 
Provided, That such transfers may be increased or decreased within the 
overall appropriation under this heading: Provided further, That of the 
total appropriated, the amount for program activities that can be 
financed by the Reclamation Fund or the Bureau of Reclamation special 
fee account established by 16 U.S.C. 6806 shall be derived from that 
Fund or account: Provided further, That funds contributed under 43 
U.S.C. 395 are available until expended for the purposes for which the 
funds were contributed: Provided further, That funds advanced under 43 
U.S.C. 397a shall be credited to this account and are available until 
expended for the same purposes as the sums appropriated under this 
heading: Provided further, That of the amounts provided herein, funds 
may be used for high-priority projects which shall be carried out by 
the Youth Conservation Corps, as authorized by 16 U.S.C. 1706.

                central valley project restoration fund

    For carrying out the programs, projects, plans, habitat 
restoration, improvement, and acquisition provisions of the Central 
Valley Project Improvement Act, $56,995,000, to be derived from such 
sums as may be collected in the Central Valley Project Restoration Fund 
pursuant to sections 3407(d), 3404(c)(3), and 3405(f) of Public Law 
102-575, to remain available until expended: Provided, That the Bureau 
of Reclamation is directed to assess and collect the full amount of the 
additional mitigation and restoration payments authorized by section 
3407(d) of Public Law 102-575: Provided further, That none of the funds 
made available under this heading may be used for the acquisition or 
leasing of water for in-stream purposes if the water is already 
committed to in-stream purposes by a court adopted decree or order.

                    california bay-delta restoration

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For carrying out activities authorized by the Water Supply, 
Reliability, and Environmental Improvement Act, consistent with plans 
to be approved by the Secretary of the Interior, $37,000,000, to remain 
available until expended, of which such amounts as may be necessary to 
carry out such activities may be transferred to appropriate accounts of 
other participating Federal agencies to carry out authorized purposes: 
Provided, That funds appropriated herein may be used for the Federal 
share of the costs of CALFED Program management: Provided further, That 
CALFED implementation shall be carried out in a balanced manner with 
clear performance measures demonstrating concurrent progress in 
achieving the goals and objectives of the Program.

                       policy and administration

    For necessary expenses of policy, administration, and related 
functions in the Office of the Commissioner, the Denver office, and 
offices in the five regions of the Bureau of Reclamation, to remain 
available until September 30, 2016, $53,849,000, to be derived from the 
Reclamation Fund and be nonreimbursable as provided in 43 U.S.C. 377: 
Provided, That no part of any other appropriation in this Act shall be 
available for activities or functions budgeted as policy and 
administration expenses.

               bureau of reclamation loan program account

                    (including rescission of funds)

    Of the unobligated balances available under this heading, $500,000 
is hereby permanently rescinded.

                        administrative provision

    Appropriations for the Bureau of Reclamation shall be available for 
purchase of not to exceed five passenger motor vehicles, which are for 
replacement only.

             GENERAL PROVISIONS--DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR

    Sec. 201. (a) None of the funds provided in this title shall be 
available for obligation or expenditure through a reprogramming of 
funds that--
            (1) creates or initiates a new program, project, or 
        activity;
            (2) eliminates a program, project, or activity;
            (3) increases funds for any program, project, or activity 
        for which funds have been denied or restricted by this Act;
            (4) restarts or resumes any program, project or activity 
        for which funds are not provided in this Act, unless prior 
        approval is received from the Committees on Appropriations of 
        the House of Representatives and the Senate;
            (5) transfers funds in excess of the following limits--
                    (A) 15 percent for any program, project or activity 
                for which $2,000,000 or more is available at the 
                beginning of the fiscal year; or
                    (B) $300,000 for any program, project or activity 
                for which less than $2,000,000 is available at the 
                beginning of the fiscal year;
            (6) transfers more than $500,000 from either the Facilities 
        Operation, Maintenance, and Rehabilitation category or the 
        Resources Management and Development category to any program, 
        project, or activity in the other category; or
            (7) transfers, when necessary to discharge legal 
        obligations of the Bureau of Reclamation, more than $5,000,000 
        to provide adequate funds for settled contractor claims, 
        increased contractor earnings due to accelerated rates of 
        operations, and real estate deficiency judgments.
    (b) Subsection (a)(5) shall not apply to any transfer of funds 
within the Facilities Operation, Maintenance, and Rehabilitation 
category.
    (c) For purposes of this section, the term ``transfer'' means any 
movement of funds into or out of a program, project, or activity.
    (d) The Bureau of Reclamation shall submit reports on a quarterly 
basis to the Committees on Appropriations of the House of 
Representatives and the Senate detailing all the funds reprogrammed 
between programs, projects, activities, or categories of funding. The 
first quarterly report shall be submitted not later than 60 days after 
the date of enactment of this Act.
    Sec. 202. (a) None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
available by this Act may be used to determine the final point of 
discharge for the interceptor drain for the San Luis Unit until 
development by the Secretary of the Interior and the State of 
California of a plan, which shall conform to the water quality 
standards of the State of California as approved by the Administrator 
of the Environmental Protection Agency, to minimize any detrimental 
effect of the San Luis drainage waters.
    (b) The costs of the Kesterson Reservoir Cleanup Program and the 
costs of the San Joaquin Valley Drainage Program shall be classified by 
the Secretary of the Interior as reimbursable or nonreimbursable and 
collected until fully repaid pursuant to the ``Cleanup Program--
Alternative Repayment Plan'' and the ``SJVDP--Alternative Repayment 
Plan'' described in the report entitled ``Repayment Report, Kesterson 
Reservoir Cleanup Program and San Joaquin Valley Drainage Program, 
February 1995'', prepared by the Department of the Interior, Bureau of 
Reclamation. Any future obligations of funds by the United States 
relating to, or providing for, drainage service or drainage studies for 
the San Luis Unit shall be fully reimbursable by San Luis Unit 
beneficiaries of such service or studies pursuant to Federal 
reclamation law.

                    TITLE III--DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY

                            ENERGY PROGRAMS

                 Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy

    For Department of Energy expenses including the purchase, 
construction, and acquisition of plant and capital equipment, and other 
expenses necessary for energy efficiency and renewable energy 
activities in carrying out the purposes of the Department of Energy 
Organization Act (42 U.S.C. 7101 et seq.), including the acquisition or 
condemnation of any real property or any facility or for plant or 
facility acquisition, construction, or expansion, $1,789,000,000 
(reduced by $7,000,000) (increased by $9,000,000), to remain available 
until expended: Provided, That of such amount, $150,000,000 shall be 
available until September 30, 2016, for program direction.

              Electricity Delivery and Energy Reliability

    For Department of Energy expenses including the purchase, 
construction, and acquisition of plant and capital equipment, and other 
expenses necessary for electricity delivery and energy reliability 
activities in carrying out the purposes of the Department of Energy 
Organization Act (42 U.S.C. 7101 et seq.), including the acquisition or 
condemnation of any real property or any facility or for plant or 
facility acquisition, construction, or expansion, $160,000,000, to 
remain available until expended: Provided, That of such amount, 
$27,500,000 shall be available until September 30, 2016, for program 
direction.

                             Nuclear Energy

    For Department of Energy expenses including the purchase, 
construction, and acquisition of plant and capital equipment, and other 
expenses necessary for nuclear energy activities in carrying out the 
purposes of the Department of Energy Organization Act (42 U.S.C. 7101 
et seq.), including the acquisition or condemnation of any real 
property or any facility or for plant or facility acquisition, 
construction, or expansion, $899,000,000 (reduced by $73,309,100.00), 
to remain available until expended: Provided, That of such amount, 
$73,000,000 shall be available until September 30, 2016, for program 
direction including official reception and representation expenses not 
to exceed $10,000.

                 Fossil Energy Research and Development

    For necessary expenses in carrying out fossil energy research and 
development activities, under the authority of the Department of Energy 
Organization Act (42 U.S.C. 7101 et seq.), including the acquisition of 
interest, including defeasible and equitable interests in any real 
property or any facility or for plant or facility acquisition or 
expansion, and for conducting inquiries, technological investigations 
and research concerning the extraction, processing, use, and disposal 
of mineral substances without objectionable social and environmental 
costs (30 U.S.C. 3, 1602, and 1603), $593,000,000, to remain available 
until expended: Provided, That of such amount, $120,000,000 shall be 
available until September 30, 2016, for program direction.

                 Naval Petroleum and Oil Shale Reserves

    For expenses necessary to carry out naval petroleum and oil shale 
reserve activities, $19,950,000, to remain available until expended: 
Provided, That, notwithstanding any other provision of law, unobligated 
funds remaining from prior years shall be available for all naval 
petroleum and oil shale reserve activities.

                      Elk Hills School Lands Fund

    For necessary expenses in fulfilling the final payment under the 
Settlement Agreement entered into by the United States and the State of 
California on October 11, 1996, as authorized by section 3415 of Public 
Law 104-106 (10 U.S.C. 7420 note), $15,579,815, for payment to the 
State of California for the Teachers' Retirement Fund of the State, of 
which $15,579,815 shall be derived from the Elk Hills School Lands 
Fund.

                      Strategic Petroleum Reserve

    For necessary expenses for Strategic Petroleum Reserve facility 
development and operations and program management activities pursuant 
to the Energy Policy and Conservation Act (42 U.S.C. 6201 et seq.), 
$205,000,000, to remain available until expended.

                   Northeast Home Heating Oil Reserve

                    (including rescission of funds)

    For necessary expenses for Northeast Home Heating Oil Reserve 
storage, operation, and management activities pursuant to the Energy 
Policy and Conservation Act (42 U.S.C. 6201 et seq.), $7,600,000, to 
remain available until expended: Provided, That of the unobligated 
balances from prior year appropriations available under this heading, 
$6,000,000 is hereby permanently rescinded: Provided further, That no 
amounts may be rescinded from amounts that were designated by the 
Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to a concurrent 
resolution on the budget or the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
Control Act of 1985.

                   Energy Information Administration

    For necessary expenses in carrying out the activities of the Energy 
Information Administration, $120,000,000 (reduced by $500,000), to 
remain available until expended.

                   Non-Defense Environmental Cleanup

    For Department of Energy expenses, including the purchase, 
construction, and acquisition of plant and capital equipment and other 
expenses necessary for non-defense environmental cleanup activities in 
carrying out the purposes of the Department of Energy Organization Act 
(42 U.S.C. 7101 et seq.), including the acquisition or condemnation of 
any real property or any facility or for plant or facility acquisition, 
construction, or expansion, $241,174,000 (increased by $4,000,000), to 
remain available until expended.

      Uranium Enrichment Decontamination and Decommissioning Fund

    For necessary expenses in carrying out uranium enrichment facility 
decontamination and decommissioning, remedial actions, and other 
activities of title II of the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, and title X, 
subtitle A, of the Energy Policy Act of 1992, $585,976,000, to be 
derived from the Uranium Enrichment Decontamination and Decommissioning 
Fund, to remain available until expended.

                                Science

    For Department of Energy expenses including the purchase, 
construction, and acquisition of plant and capital equipment, and other 
expenses necessary for science activities in carrying out the purposes 
of the Department of Energy Organization Act (42 U.S.C. 7101 et seq.), 
including the acquisition or condemnation of any real property or 
facility or for plant or facility acquisition, construction, or 
expansion, and purchase of not more than 17 passenger motor vehicles 
for replacement only, including two buses, $5,071,000,000 (reduced by 
$300,000) (increased by $300,000), to remain available until expended: 
Provided, That of such amount, $180,000,000 shall be available until 
September 30, 2016, for program direction: Provided further, That no 
funding may be made available for United States cash contributions to 
the International Thermonuclear Experimental Reactor project until its 
governing Council implements the recommendations of the Third Biennial 
International Organization Management Assessment Report: Provided 
further, That the Secretary of Energy may waive this requirement upon 
submission to the Committees on Appropriations of the House of 
Representatives and the Senate a determination that the Council is 
making satisfactory progress towards implementation of such 
recommendations.

                         Nuclear Waste Disposal

    For nuclear waste disposal activities to carry out the purposes of 
the Nuclear Waste Policy Act of 1982 (Public Law 97-425), including the 
acquisition of real property or facility construction or expansion, 
$150,000,000, to remain available until expended, and to be derived 
from the Nuclear Waste Fund.

               Advanced Research Projects Agency--Energy

    For necessary expenses in carrying out the activities authorized by 
section 5012 of the America COMPETES Act (42 U.S.C. 16538), 
$280,000,000 (increased by $20,000,000), to remain available until 
expended: Provided, That of such amount, $28,000,000 shall be available 
until September 30, 2016, for program direction.

         Title 17 Innovative Technology Loan Guarantee Program

    Such sums as are derived from amounts received from borrowers 
pursuant to section 1702(b) of the Energy Policy Act of 2005 (42 U.S.C. 
16512(b)) under this heading in prior Acts, shall be collected in 
accordance with section 502(7) of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974: 
Provided, That, for necessary administrative expenses to carry out this 
Loan Guarantee program, $42,000,000 is appropriated, to remain 
available until September 30, 2016: Provided further, That $25,000,000 
of the fees collected pursuant to section 1702(h) of the Energy Policy 
Act of 2005 shall be credited as offsetting collections to this account 
to cover administrative expenses and shall remain available until 
expended, so as to result in a final fiscal year 2015 appropriation 
from the general fund estimated at not more than $17,000,000: Provided 
further, That fees collected under section 1702(h) in excess of the 
amount appropriated for administrative expenses shall not be available 
until appropriated: Provided further, That the Department of Energy 
shall not subordinate any loan obligation to other financing in 
violation of section 1702 of the Energy Policy Act of 2005 or 
subordinate any Guaranteed Obligation to any loan or other debt 
obligations in violation of section 609.10 of title 10, Code of Federal 
Regulations.

        Advanced Technology Vehicles Manufacturing Loan Program

    For administrative expenses in carrying out the Advanced Technology 
Vehicles Manufacturing Loan Program, $4,000,000, to remain available 
until September 30, 2016.

                         Clean Coal Technology

                    (including rescission of funds)

    Of the unobligated balances from prior year appropriations under 
this heading, $6,600,000 is hereby permanently rescinded: Provided, 
That no amounts may be rescinded from amounts that were designated by 
the Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to a concurrent 
resolution on the budget or the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
Control Act of 1985, as amended.

                      Departmental Administration

    For salaries and expenses of the Department of Energy necessary for 
departmental administration in carrying out the purposes of the 
Department of Energy Organization Act (42 U.S.C. 7101 et seq.), 
$255,171,000 (reduced by $500,000) (reduced by $5,000,000) (reduced by 
$1,000,000) (reduced by $6,000,000) (increased by $500,000) (reduced by 
$4,000,000) (reduced by $1,000,000) (increased by $1,000,000) (reduced 
by $9,000,000) (reduced by $20,000,000), to remain available until 
September 30, 2016, including the hire of passenger motor vehicles and 
official reception and representation expenses not to exceed $30,000, 
plus such additional amounts as necessary to cover increases in the 
estimated amount of cost of work for others notwithstanding the 
provisions of the Anti-Deficiency Act (31 U.S.C. 1511 et seq.): 
Provided, That such increases in cost of work are offset by revenue 
increases of the same or greater amount: Provided further, That moneys 
received by the Department for miscellaneous revenues estimated to 
total $119,171,000 in fiscal year 2015 may be retained and used for 
operating expenses within this account, as authorized by section 201 of 
Public Law 95-238, notwithstanding the provisions of 31 U.S.C. 3302: 
Provided further, That the sum herein appropriated shall be reduced as 
collections are received during the fiscal year so as to result in a 
final fiscal year 2015 appropriation from the general fund estimated at 
not more than $136,000,000.

                    Office of the Inspector General

    For necessary expenses of the Office of the Inspector General in 
carrying out the provisions of the Inspector General Act of 1978, 
$42,120,000, to remain available until September 30, 2016.

                    ATOMIC ENERGY DEFENSE ACTIVITIES

                NATIONAL NUCLEAR SECURITY ADMINISTRATION

                           Weapons Activities

    For Department of Energy expenses, including the purchase, 
construction, and acquisition of plant and capital equipment and other 
incidental expenses necessary for atomic energy defense weapons 
activities in carrying out the purposes of the Department of Energy 
Organization Act (42 U.S.C. 7101 et seq.), including the acquisition or 
condemnation of any real property or any facility or for plant or 
facility acquisition, construction, or expansion, and the purchase of 
not to exceed 4 passenger vehicles, $8,204,209,000, to remain available 
until expended: Provided, That of such amount, $97,118,000 shall be 
available until September 30, 2016, for program direction.

                    Defense Nuclear Nonproliferation

                    (including rescission of funds)

    For Department of Energy expenses, including the purchase, 
construction, and acquisition of plant and capital equipment and other 
incidental expenses necessary for defense nuclear nonproliferation 
activities, in carrying out the purposes of the Department of Energy 
Organization Act (42 U.S.C. 7101 et seq.), including the acquisition or 
condemnation of any real property or any facility or for plant or 
facility acquisition, construction, or expansion, $1,592,156,000, to 
remain available until expended: Provided, That funds provided by this 
Act for Project 99-D-143, Mixed Oxide Fuel Fabrication Facility, and by 
prior Acts that remain unobligated for such Project, may be made 
available only for construction and program support activities for such 
Project: Provided further, That of the unobligated balances from prior 
year appropriations available under this heading, $37,000,000 is hereby 
permanently rescinded: Provided further, That no amounts may be 
rescinded from amounts that were designated by the Congress as an 
emergency requirement pursuant to a concurrent resolution on the budget 
or the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                             Naval Reactors

    For Department of Energy expenses necessary for naval reactors 
activities to carry out the Department of Energy Organization Act (42 
U.S.C. 7101 et seq.), including the acquisition (by purchase, 
condemnation, construction, or otherwise) of real property, plant, and 
capital equipment, facilities, and facility expansion, $1,215,342,000, 
to remain available until expended: Provided, That of such amount, 
$41,500,000 shall be available until September 30, 2016, for program 
direction.

                      Office of the Administrator

    For necessary expenses of the Office of the Administrator in the 
National Nuclear Security Administration, $386,863,000, to remain 
available until September 30, 2016, including official reception and 
representation expenses not to exceed $12,000.

               ENVIRONMENTAL AND OTHER DEFENSE ACTIVITIES

                     Defense Environmental Cleanup

    For Department of Energy expenses, including the purchase, 
construction, and acquisition of plant and capital equipment and other 
expenses necessary for atomic energy defense environmental cleanup 
activities in carrying out the purposes of the Department of Energy 
Organization Act (42 U.S.C. 7101 et seq.), including the acquisition or 
condemnation of any real property or any facility or for plant or 
facility acquisition, construction, or expansion, and the purchase of 
not to exceed one sport utility vehicle, one heavy duty truck, two 
ambulances, and one ladder fire truck for replacement only, 
$4,801,280,000, to remain available until expended: Provided, That of 
such amount, $280,784,000 shall be available until September 30, 2016, 
for program direction.

                        Other Defense Activities

    For Department of Energy expenses, including the purchase, 
construction, and acquisition of plant and capital equipment and other 
expenses, necessary for atomic energy defense, other defense 
activities, and classified activities, in carrying out the purposes of 
the Department of Energy Organization Act (42 U.S.C. 7101 et seq.), 
including the acquisition or condemnation of any real property or any 
facility or for plant or facility acquisition, construction, or 
expansion, $754,000,000, to remain available until expended: Provided, 
That of such amount, $249,378,000 shall be available until September 
30, 2016, for program direction.

                    POWER MARKETING ADMINISTRATIONS

                  Bonneville Power Administration Fund

    Expenditures from the Bonneville Power Administration Fund, 
established pursuant to Public Law 93-454, are approved for the Black 
Canyon Trout Hatchery and, in addition, for official reception and 
representation expenses in an amount not to exceed $5,000: Provided, 
That during fiscal year 2015, no new direct loan obligations may be 
made.

      Operation and Maintenance, Southeastern Power Administration

    For necessary expenses of operation and maintenance of power 
transmission facilities and of marketing electric power and energy, 
including transmission wheeling and ancillary services, pursuant to 
section 5 of the Flood Control Act of 1944 (16 U.S.C. 825s), as applied 
to the southeastern power area, and including official reception and 
representation expenses in an amount not to exceed $1,500, $7,220,000, 
to remain available until expended: Provided, That notwithstanding 31 
U.S.C. 3302 and section 5 of the Flood Control Act of 1944, up to 
$7,220,000 collected by the Southeastern Power Administration from the 
sale of power and related services shall be credited to this account as 
discretionary offsetting collections, to remain available until 
expended for the sole purpose of funding the annual expenses of the 
Southeastern Power Administration: Provided further, That the sum 
herein appropriated for annual expenses shall be reduced as collections 
are received during the fiscal year so as to result in a final fiscal 
year 2015 appropriation estimated at not more than $0: Provided 
further, That, notwithstanding 31 U.S.C. 3302, up to $73,579,000 
collected by the Southeastern Power Administration pursuant to the 
Flood Control Act of 1944 to recover purchase power and wheeling 
expenses shall be credited to this account as offsetting collections, 
to remain available until expended for the sole purpose of making 
purchase power and wheeling expenditures: Provided further, That for 
purposes of this appropriation, annual expenses means expenditures that 
are generally recovered in the same year that they are incurred 
(excluding purchase power and wheeling expenses).

      Operation and Maintenance, Southwestern Power Administration

    For necessary expenses of operation and maintenance of power 
transmission facilities and of marketing electric power and energy, for 
construction and acquisition of transmission lines, substations and 
appurtenant facilities, and for administrative expenses, including 
official reception and representation expenses in an amount not to 
exceed $1,500 in carrying out section 5 of the Flood Control Act of 
1944 (16 U.S.C. 825s), as applied to the Southwestern Power 
Administration, $46,240,000, to remain available until expended: 
Provided, That notwithstanding 31 U.S.C. 3302 and section 5 of the 
Flood Control Act of 1944 (16 U.S.C. 825s), up to $34,840,000 collected 
by the Southwestern Power Administration from the sale of power and 
related services shall be credited to this account as discretionary 
offsetting collections, to remain available until expended, for the 
sole purpose of funding the annual expenses of the Southwestern Power 
Administration: Provided further, That the sum herein appropriated for 
annual expenses shall be reduced as collections are received during the 
fiscal year so as to result in a final fiscal year 2015 appropriation 
estimated at not more than $11,400,000: Provided further, That, 
notwithstanding 31 U.S.C. 3302, up to $53,000,000 collected by the 
Southwestern Power Administration pursuant to the Flood Control Act of 
1944 to recover purchase power and wheeling expenses shall be credited 
to this account as offsetting collections, to remain available until 
expended for the sole purpose of making purchase power and wheeling 
expenditures: Provided further, That, for purposes of this 
appropriation, annual expenses means expenditures that are generally 
recovered in the same year that they are incurred (excluding purchase 
power and wheeling expenses).

 Construction, Rehabilitation, Operation and Maintenance, Western Area 
                          Power Administration

    For carrying out the functions authorized by title III, section 
302(a)(1)(E) of the Act of August 4, 1977 (42 U.S.C. 7152), and other 
related activities including conservation and renewable resources 
programs as authorized, including official reception and representation 
expenses in an amount not to exceed $1,500, $304,402,000, to remain 
available until expended, of which $296,321,000 shall be derived from 
the Department of the Interior Reclamation Fund: Provided, That 
notwithstanding 31 U.S.C. 3302, section 5 of the Flood Control Act of 
1944 (16 U.S.C. 825s), and section 1 of the Interior Department 
Appropriation Act, 1939 (43 U.S.C. 392a), up to $211,030,000 collected 
by the Western Area Power Administration from the sale of power and 
related services shall be credited to this account as discretionary 
offsetting collections, to remain available until expended, for the 
sole purpose of funding the annual expenses of the Western Area Power 
Administration: Provided further, That the sum herein appropriated for 
annual expenses shall be reduced as collections are received during the 
fiscal year so as to result in a final fiscal year 2015 appropriation 
estimated at not more than $93,372,000, of which $85,291,000 is derived 
from the Reclamation Fund: Provided further, That, notwithstanding 31 
U.S.C. 3302, up to $260,510,000 collected by the Western Area Power 
Administration pursuant to the Flood Control Act of 1944 and the 
Reclamation Project Act of 1939 to recover purchase power and wheeling 
expenses shall be credited to this account as offsetting collections, 
to remain available until expended for the sole purpose of making 
purchase power and wheeling expenditures: Provided further, That, for 
purposes of this appropriation, annual expenses means expenditures that 
are generally recovered in the same year that they are incurred 
(excluding purchase power and wheeling expenses).

           Falcon and Amistad Operating and Maintenance Fund

    For operation, maintenance, and emergency costs for the 
hydroelectric facilities at the Falcon and Amistad Dams, $4,727,000, to 
remain available until expended, and to be derived from the Falcon and 
Amistad Operating and Maintenance Fund of the Western Area Power 
Administration, as provided in section 2 of the Act of June 18, 1954 
(68 Stat. 255): Provided, That notwithstanding the provisions of that 
Act and of 31 U.S.C. 3302, up to $4,499,000 collected by the Western 
Area Power Administration from the sale of power and related services 
from the Falcon and Amistad Dams shall be credited to this account as 
discretionary offsetting collections, to remain available until 
expended for the sole purpose of funding the annual expenses of the 
hydroelectric facilities of these Dams and associated Western Area 
Power Administration activities: Provided further, That the sum herein 
appropriated for annual expenses shall be reduced as collections are 
received during the fiscal year so as to result in a final fiscal year 
2015 appropriation estimated at not more than $228,000: Provided 
further, That for purposes of this appropriation, annual expenses means 
expenditures that are generally recovered in the same year that they 
are incurred: Provided further, That for fiscal year 2015, the 
Administrator of the Western Area Power Administration may accept up to 
$802,000 in funds contributed by United States power customers of the 
Falcon and Amistad Dams for deposit into the Falcon and Amistad 
Operating and Maintenance Fund, and such funds shall be available for 
the purpose for which contributed in like manner as if said sums had 
been specifically appropriated for such purpose: Provided further, That 
any such funds shall be available without further appropriation and 
without fiscal year limitation for use by the Commissioner of the 
United States Section of the International Boundary and Water 
Commission for the sole purpose of operating, maintaining, repairing, 
rehabilitating, replacing, or upgrading the hydroelectric facilities at 
these Dams in accordance with agreements reached between the 
Administrator, Commissioner, and the power customers.

                  Federal Energy Regulatory Commission

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission 
to carry out the provisions of the Department of Energy Organization 
Act (42 U.S.C. 7101 et seq.), including services as authorized by 5 
U.S.C. 3109, the hire of passenger motor vehicles, and official 
reception and representation expenses not to exceed $3,000, 
$304,389,000, to remain available until expended: Provided, That of the 
amount appropriated herein, not more than $5,400,000 may be made 
available for salaries, travel, and other support costs for the offices 
of the Commissioners: Provided further, That notwithstanding any other 
provision of law, not to exceed $304,389,000 of revenues from fees and 
annual charges, and other services and collections in fiscal year 2015 
shall be retained and used for necessary expenses in this account, and 
shall remain available until expended: Provided further, That the sum 
herein appropriated from the general fund shall be reduced as revenues 
are received during fiscal year 2015 so as to result in a final fiscal 
year 2015 appropriation from the general fund estimated at not more 
than $0.

                GENERAL PROVISIONS--DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY

             (including transfer and rescissions of funds)

    Sec. 301. (a) No appropriation, funds, or authority made available 
by this title for the Department of Energy shall be used to initiate or 
resume any program, project, or activity or to prepare or initiate 
Requests For Proposals or similar arrangements (including Requests for 
Quotations, Requests for Information, and Funding Opportunity 
Announcements) for a program, project, or activity if the program, 
project, or activity has not been funded by Congress.
    (b)(1) Unless the Secretary of Energy notifies the Committees on 
Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the Senate at least 
3 full business days in advance, none of the funds made available in 
this title may be used to--
            (A) make a grant allocation or discretionary grant award 
        totaling $1,000,000 or more;
            (B) make a discretionary contract award or Other 
        Transaction Agreement totaling $1,000,000 or more, including a 
        contract covered by the Federal Acquisition Regulation;
            (C) issue a letter of intent to make an allocation, award, 
        or Agreement in excess of the limits in subparagraph (A) or 
        (B); or
            (D) announce publicly the intention to make an allocation, 
        award, or Agreement in excess of the limits in subparagraph (A) 
        or (B).
    (2) The Secretary of Energy shall submit to the Committees on 
Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the Senate within 15 
days of the conclusion of each quarter a report detailing each grant 
allocation or discretionary grant award totaling less than $1,000,000 
provided during the previous quarter.
    (3) The notification required by paragraph (1) and the report 
required by paragraph (2) shall include the recipient of the award, the 
amount of the award, the fiscal year for which the funds for the award 
were appropriated, the account and program, project, or activity from 
which the funds are being drawn, the title of the award, and a brief 
description of the activity for which the award is made.
    (c) The Department of Energy may not, with respect to any program, 
project, or activity that uses budget authority made available in this 
title under the heading ``Department of Energy--Energy Programs'', 
enter into a multiyear contract, award a multiyear grant, or enter into 
a multiyear cooperative agreement unless--
            (1) the contract, grant, or cooperative agreement is funded 
        for the full period of performance as anticipated at the time 
        of award; or
            (2) the contract, grant, or cooperative agreement includes 
        a clause conditioning the Federal Government's obligation on 
        the availability of future year budget authority and the 
        Secretary notifies the Committees on Appropriations of the 
        House of Representatives and the Senate at least 3 days in 
        advance.
    (d) Except as provided in subsections (e), (f), and (g), the 
amounts made available by this title shall be expended as authorized by 
law for the programs, projects, and activities specified in the 
``Bill'' column in the ``Department of Energy'' table included under 
the heading ``Title III--Department of Energy'' in the report of the 
Committee on Appropriations accompanying this Act.
    (e) The amounts made available by this title may be reprogrammed 
for any program, project, or activity, and the Department shall notify 
the Committees on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and 
the Senate at least 30 days prior to the use of any proposed 
reprogramming which would cause any program, project, or activity 
funding level to increase or decrease by more than $5,000,000 or 10 
percent, whichever is less, during the time period covered by this Act.
    (f) None of the funds provided in this title shall be available for 
obligation or expenditure through a reprogramming of funds that--
            (1) creates, initiates, or eliminates a program, project, 
        or activity;
            (2) increases funds or personnel for any program, project, 
        or activity for which funds are denied or restricted by this 
        Act; or
            (3) reduces funds that are directed to be used for a 
        specific program, project, or activity by this Act.
    (g)(1) The Secretary of Energy may waive any requirement or 
restriction in this section that applies to the use of funds made 
available for the Department of Energy if compliance with such 
requirement or restriction would pose a substantial risk to human 
health, the environment, welfare, or national security.
    (2) The Secretary of Energy shall notify the Committees on 
Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the Senate of any 
waiver under paragraph (1) as soon as practicable, but not later than 3 
days after the date of the activity to which a requirement or 
restriction would otherwise have applied. Such notice shall include an 
explanation of the substantial risk under paragraph (1) that permitted 
such waiver.
    Sec. 302.  The unexpended balances of prior appropriations provided 
for activities in this Act may be available to the same appropriation 
accounts for such activities established pursuant to this title. 
Available balances may be merged with funds in the applicable 
established accounts and thereafter may be accounted for as one fund 
for the same time period as originally enacted.
    Sec. 303.  Funds appropriated by this or any other Act, or made 
available by the transfer of funds in this Act, for intelligence 
activities are deemed to be specifically authorized by the Congress for 
purposes of section 504 of the National Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 
414) during fiscal year 2015 until the enactment of the Intelligence 
Authorization Act for fiscal year 2015.
    Sec. 304.  None of the funds made available in this title shall be 
used for the construction of facilities classified as high-hazard 
nuclear facilities under 10 CFR Part 830 unless independent oversight 
is conducted by the Office of Independent Enterprise Assessments to 
ensure the project is in compliance with nuclear safety requirements.
    Sec. 305.  None of the funds made available in this title may be 
used to approve critical decision-2 or critical decision-3 under 
Department of Energy Order 413.3B, or any successive departmental 
guidance, for construction projects where the total project cost 
exceeds $100,000,000, until a separate independent cost estimate has 
been developed for the project for that critical decision.
    Sec. 306. (a) Any determination (including a determination made 
prior to the date of enactment of this Act) by the Secretary pursuant 
to section 3112(d)(2)(B) of the USEC Privatization Act (42 U.S.C. 
2297h-10(d)(2)(B)), as amended, shall be valid for not more than 2 
calendar years subsequent to such determination.
    (b) Not less than 30 days prior to the provision of uranium in any 
form the Secretary of Energy shall notify the Committees on 
Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the Senate of--
            (1) the amount of uranium to be provided;
            (2) an estimate by the Secretary of the gross fair market 
        value of the uranium on the expected date of the provision of 
        the uranium;
            (3) the expected date of the provision of the uranium;
            (4) the recipient of the uranium; and
            (5) the value the Secretary expects to receive in exchange 
        for the uranium, including any adjustments to the gross fair 
        market value of the uranium.
    (c) If on the expected date of provision, the estimated gross fair 
market value of the uranium hexafluoride (UF6), comprising of uranium 
and conversion, is more than 10 percent lower than the gross fair 
market value on the date the most recent determination was signed by 
the Secretary, the Secretary shall issue a new determination pursuant 
to section 3112(d)(2)(B) of the USEC Privatization Act (42 U.S.C. 
2297h-10(d)(2)(B)) before the provision can be processed.
    Sec. 307.  Notwithstanding section 301(c) of this Act, none of the 
funds made available under the heading ``Department of Energy--Energy 
Programs--Science'' may be used for a multiyear contract, grant, 
cooperative agreement, or Other Transaction Agreement of $1,000,000 or 
less unless the contract, grant, cooperative agreement, or Other 
Transaction Agreement is funded for the full period of performance as 
anticipated at the time of award.
    Sec. 308.  In fiscal year 2015 and subsequent fiscal years, the 
Secretary of Energy shall submit to the congressional defense 
committees (as defined in U.S.C. 101(a)(16)) a report, on each major 
warhead refurbishment program that reaches the Phase 6.3 milestone, 
that provides an analysis of alternatives. Such report shall include--
            (1) a full description of alternatives considered prior to 
        the award of Phase 6.3;
            (2) a comparison of the costs and benefits of each of those 
        alternatives, to include an analysis of trade-offs among cost, 
        schedule, and performance objectives against each alternative 
        considered;
            (3) identification of the cost and risk of critical 
        technology elements associated with each alternative, including 
        technology maturity, integration risk, manufacturing 
        feasibility, and demonstration needs;
            (4) identification of the cost and risk of additional 
        capital asset and infrastructure capabilities required to 
        support production and certification of each alternative;
            (5) a comparative analysis of the risks, costs, and 
        scheduling needs for any military requirement intended to 
        enhance warhead safety, security, or maintainability, including 
        any requirement to consolidate and/or integrate warhead systems 
        or mods as compared to at least one other feasible 
        refurbishment alternative the Nuclear Weapons Council considers 
        appropriate; and
            (6) a life-cycle cost estimate for the alternative selected 
        that details the overall cost, scope, and schedule planning 
        assumptions.
    Sec. 309. (a) Unobligated balances available from prior year 
appropriations are hereby permanently rescinded from the following 
accounts of the Department of Energy in the specified amounts:
            (1) ``Energy Programs--Energy Efficiency and Renewable 
        Energy'', $18,111,000.
            (2) ``Energy Programs--Electricity Delivery and Energy 
        Reliability'', $4,809,000.
            (3) ``Energy Programs--Nuclear Energy'', $1,046,000.
            (4) ``Energy Programs--Fossil Energy Research and 
        Development'', $8,243,000.
            (5) ``Energy Programs--Science'', $5,257,000.
            (6) ``Energy Programs--Advanced Research Projects Agency--
        Energy'', $619,000.
            (7) ``Power Marketing Administrations--Construction, 
        Rehabilitation, Operation and Maintenance, Western Area Power 
        Administration'', $1,720,000.
    (b) No amounts may be rescinded by this section from amounts that 
were designated by the Congress as an emergency requirement pursuant to 
a concurrent resolution on the budget or the Balanced Budget and 
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
    Sec. 310.  From funds made available by this Act for pension plan 
payments in excess of legal requirements, up to $90,000,000 under 
``Weapons Activities'' and up to $30,000,000 under ``Defense Nuclear 
Nonproliferation'' may be transferred to ``Defense Environmental 
Cleanup'' to support decontamination and other requirements at the 
Waste Isolation Pilot Plant.
    Sec. 311. (a) None of the funds made available in this or any prior 
Act under the heading ``Defense Nuclear Nonproliferation'' may be made 
available for contracts with, or Federal assistance to, the Russian 
Federation.
    (b) The Secretary of Energy may waive the prohibition in subsection 
(a) if the Secretary determines that such activity is in the national 
security interests of the United States. This waiver authority may not 
be delegated.
    (c) A waiver under subsection (b) shall not be effective until 30 
days after the date on which the Secretary submits to the Committees on 
Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the Senate, in 
classified form if necessary, a report on the justification for the 
waiver.
    Sec. 312.  All balances under ``United States Enrichment 
Corporation Fund'' are hereby permanently rescinded. No amounts may be 
rescinded from amounts that were designated by the Congress as an 
emergency requirement pursuant to a concurrent resolution on the budget 
or the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
    Sec. 313. (a) None of the funds made available by this or any other 
Act making appropriations for Energy and Water Development for any 
fiscal year or funds available in the SPR Petroleum Account in this and 
subsequent fiscal years may be used to carry out a test drawdown and 
sale or exchange of petroleum products from the Strategic Petroleum 
Reserve as authorized by section 161(g) of the Energy Policy and 
Conservation Act (42 U.S.C. 6241(g)) unless the Secretary of Energy 
submits to the Committees on Appropriations of the House of 
Representatives and the Senate not less than 30 full calendar days in 
advance of such test--
            (1) notification of intent to conduct a test;
            (2) an explanation of why such a test is necessary or what 
        is expected to be learned;
            (3) the amount of crude oil or refined petroleum product to 
        be offered for sale or exchange;
            ( 4) an estimate of revenues expected from such test; and
            (5) a plan for refilling the Reserve, including whether the 
        acquisition will be of the same or of a different petroleum 
        product.
    (b) None of the funds made available by this or any prior Act or 
funds available in the SPR Petroleum Account may be used to acquire any 
petroleum product other than crude oil.
    Sec. 314.  Of the funds authorized by the Secretary of Energy for 
laboratory directed research and development, no individual program, 
project, or activity funded by this or any subsequent Energy and Water 
Development appropriations Act for any fiscal year may be charged more 
than the statutory maximum authorized for such activities.
    Sec. 315.  None of the funds made available by this Act may be used 
by the Department of Energy to finalize, implement, or enforce the 
proposed rule entitled ``Standards Ceiling Fans and Ceiling Fan Light 
Kits'' and identified by regulation identification number 1904-AC87.

                     TITLE IV--INDEPENDENT AGENCIES

                    Appalachian Regional Commission

    For expenses necessary to carry out the programs authorized by the 
Appalachian Regional Development Act of 1965, notwithstanding 40 U.S.C. 
14704, and for necessary expenses for the Federal Co-Chairman and the 
Alternate on the Appalachian Regional Commission, for payment of the 
Federal share of the administrative expenses of the Commission, 
including services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, and hire of 
passenger motor vehicles, $80,317,000, to remain available until 
expended.

                Defense Nuclear Facilities Safety Board

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Defense Nuclear Facilities Safety 
Board in carrying out activities authorized by the Atomic Energy Act of 
1954, as amended by Public Law 100-456, section 1441, $29,150,000, to 
remain available until September 30, 2016.

                        Delta Regional Authority

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Delta Regional Authority and to carry 
out its activities, as authorized by the Delta Regional Authority Act 
of 2000, notwithstanding sections 382C(b)(2), 382F(d), 382M, and 382N 
of said Act, $12,000,000, to remain available until expended.

                           Denali Commission

    For expenses of the Denali Commission including the purchase, 
construction, and acquisition of plant and capital equipment as 
necessary and other expenses, $10,000,000, to remain available until 
expended, notwithstanding the limitations contained in section 306(g) 
of the Denali Commission Act of 1998: Provided, That funds shall be 
available for construction projects in an amount not to exceed 80 
percent of total project cost for distressed communities, as defined by 
section 307 of the Denali Commission Act of 1998 (division C, title 
III, Public Law 105-277), as amended by section 701 of appendix D, 
title VII, Public Law 106-113 (113 Stat. 1501A-280), and an amount not 
to exceed 50 percent for non-distressed communities.

                  Northern Border Regional Commission

    For necessary expenses of the Northern Border Regional Commission 
in carrying out activities authorized by subtitle V of title 40, United 
States Code, $3,000,000, to remain available until expended: Provided, 
That such amounts shall be available for administrative expenses, 
notwithstanding section 15751(b) of title 40, United States Code.

                 Southeast Crescent Regional Commission

    For necessary expenses of the Southeast Crescent Regional 
Commission in carrying out activities authorized by subtitle V of title 
40, United States Code, $250,000, to remain available until expended.

                     Nuclear Regulatory Commission

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Commission in carrying out the 
purposes of the Energy Reorganization Act of 1974 and the Atomic Energy 
Act of 1954, including official representation expenses not to exceed 
$25,000, $1,052,433,000, to remain available until expended, of which 
$55,000,000 shall be derived from the Nuclear Waste Fund: Provided, 
That of the amount appropriated herein, not more than $9,500,000 may be 
made available for salaries, travel, and other support costs for the 
Office of the Commission, to remain available until September 30, 2016, 
of which, notwithstanding section 201(a)(2)(c) of the Energy 
Reorganization Act of 1974 (42 U.S.C. 5841(a)(2)(c)), the use and 
expenditure shall only be approved by a majority vote of the 
Commission: Provided further, That revenues from licensing fees, 
inspection services, and other services and collections estimated at 
$880,155,000 in fiscal year 2015 shall be retained and used for 
necessary salaries and expenses in this account, notwithstanding 31 
U.S.C. 3302, and shall remain available until expended: Provided 
further, That the sum herein appropriated shall be reduced by the 
amount of revenues received during fiscal year 2015 so as to result in 
a final fiscal year 2015 appropriation estimated at not more than 
$172,278,000: Provided further, That of the amounts appropriated under 
this heading, $10,000,000 shall be for university research and 
development in areas relevant to their respective organization's 
mission, and $5,000,000 shall be for a Nuclear Science and Engineering 
Grant Program that will support multiyear projects that do not align 
with programmatic missions but are critical to maintaining the 
discipline of nuclear science and engineering.

                      office of inspector general

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Inspector General in 
carrying out the provisions of the Inspector General Act of 1978, 
$12,071,000, to remain available until September 30, 2016: Provided, 
That revenues from licensing fees, inspection services, and other 
services and collections estimated at $10,099,000 in fiscal year 2015 
shall be retained and be available until September 30, 2016, for 
necessary salaries and expenses in this account, notwithstanding 
section 3302 of title 31, United States Code: Provided further, That 
the sum herein appropriated shall be reduced by the amount of revenues 
received during fiscal year 2015 so as to result in a final fiscal year 
2015 appropriation estimated at not more than $1,972,000: Provided 
further, That, of the amounts appropriated under this heading, $850,000 
shall be for Inspector General services for the Defense Nuclear 
Facilities Safety Board, which shall not be available from fee 
revenues.

                  Nuclear Waste Technical Review Board

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Nuclear Waste Technical Review Board, 
as authorized by Public Law 100-203, section 5051, $3,400,000, to be 
derived from the Nuclear Waste Fund, to remain available until 
September 30, 2016.

                GENERAL PROVISIONS--INDEPENDENT AGENCIES

    Sec. 401.  The Chairman of the Nuclear Regulatory Commission shall 
notify the other members of the Commission, the Committees on 
Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the Senate, the 
Committee on Energy and Commerce of the House of Representatives, and 
the Committee on Environment and Public Works of the Senate, not later 
than 1 day after the Chairman begins performing functions under the 
authority of section 3 of Reorganization Plan No. 1 of 1980, or after a 
member of the Commission who is delegated emergency functions under 
subsection (b) of that section begins performing those functions. Such 
notification shall include an explanation of the circumstances 
warranting the exercise of such authority. The Chairman shall report to 
the Committees, not less frequently than once each week, on the actions 
taken by the Chairman, or a delegated member of the Commission, under 
such authority, until the authority is relinquished. The Chairman shall 
notify the Committees not later than 1 day after such authority is 
relinquished. The Chairman shall submit the report required by section 
3(d) of the Reorganization Plan No. 1 of 1980 to the Committees not 
later than 1 day after it was submitted to the Commission. This section 
shall be in effect in fiscal year 2015 and each subsequent fiscal year.
    Sec. 402.  The Nuclear Regulatory Commission shall comply with the 
July 5, 2011, version of Chapter VI of its Internal Commission 
Procedures when responding to Congressional requests for information 
until those Procedures are changed or waived by a majority of the 
Commission, in accordance with Commission practice.

                      TITLE V--GENERAL PROVISIONS

                     (including transfers of funds)

    Sec. 501.  None of the funds appropriated by this Act may be used 
in any way, directly or indirectly, to influence congressional action 
on any legislation or appropriation matters pending before Congress, 
other than to communicate to Members of Congress as described in 18 
U.S.C. 1913.
    Sec. 502.  None of the funds made available by this Act may be used 
to enter into a contract, memorandum of understanding, or cooperative 
agreement with, make a grant to, or provide a loan or loan guarantee to 
any corporation that was convicted of a felony criminal violation under 
any Federal law within the preceding 24 months, where the awarding 
agency is aware of the conviction, unless the agency has considered 
suspension or debarment of the corporation and has made a determination 
that this further action is not necessary to protect the interests of 
the Government.
    Sec. 503.  None of the funds made available by this Act may be used 
to enter into a contract, memorandum of understanding, or cooperative 
agreement with, make a grant to, or provide a loan or loan guarantee 
to, any corporation that has any unpaid Federal tax liability that has 
been assessed, for which all judicial and administrative remedies have 
been exhausted or have lapsed, and that is not being paid in a timely 
manner pursuant to an agreement with the authority responsible for 
collecting the tax liability, where the awarding agency is aware of the 
unpaid tax liability, unless the agency has considered suspension or 
debarment of the corporation and has made a determination that this 
further action is not necessary to protect the interests of the 
Government.
    Sec. 504. (a) None of the funds made available in title III of this 
Act may be transferred to any department, agency, or instrumentality of 
the United States Government, except pursuant to a transfer made by or 
transfer authority provided in this Act or any other appropriations Act 
for any fiscal year, transfer authority referenced in the report of the 
Committee on Appropriations accompanying this Act, or any authority 
whereby a department, agency, or instrumentality of the United States 
Government may provide goods or services to another department, agency, 
or instrumentality.
    (b) None of the funds made available for any department, agency, or 
instrumentality of the United States Government may be transferred to 
accounts funded in title III of this Act, except pursuant to a transfer 
made by or transfer authority provided in this Act or any other 
appropriations Act for any fiscal year, transfer authority referenced 
in the report of the Committee on Appropriations accompanying this Act, 
or any authority whereby a department, agency, or instrumentality of 
the United States Government may provide goods or services to another 
department, agency, or instrumentality.
    (c) The head of any relevant department or agency funded in this 
Act utilizing any transfer authority shall submit to the Committees on 
Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the Senate a 
semiannual report detailing the transfer authorities, except for any 
authority whereby a department, agency, or instrumentality of the 
United States Government may provide goods or services to another 
department, agency, or instrumentality, used in the previous 6 months 
and in the year-to-date. This report shall include the amounts 
transferred and the purposes for which they were transferred, and shall 
not replace or modify existing notification requirements for each 
authority.
    Sec. 505.  None of the funds made available by this Act may be used 
in contravention of Executive Order No. 12898 of February 11, 1994 
(``Federal Actions to Address Environmental Justice in Minority 
Populations and Low-Income Populations'').
    Sec. 506.  None of the funds made available by this Act may be used 
to conduct closure of adjudicatory functions, technical review, or 
support activities associated with the Yucca Mountain geologic 
repository license application, or for actions that irrevocably remove 
the possibility that Yucca Mountain may be a repository option in the 
future.

                       spending reduction account

    Sec. 507.  The amount by which the applicable allocation of new 
budget authority made by the Committee on Appropriations of the House 
of Representatives under section 302(b) of the Congressional Budget Act 
of 1974 exceeds the amount of proposed new budget authority is $0.
    Sec. 508.  None of the funds made available by this Act may be used 
in contravention of section 3112(d)(2)(B) of the USEC Privatization Act 
(42 U.S.C. 2297h-10(d)(2)(B)) and all public notice and comment 
requirements under chapter 6 of title 5, United States Code, that are 
applicable to carrying out such section.
    Sec. 509.  None of the funds made available by this Act may be used 
in contravention of section 4712 of title 41, United States Code.
    Sec. 510.  None of the funds made available by this Act may be used 
to enter into any contract with an incorporated entity if such entity's 
sealed bid or competitive proposal shows that such entity is 
incorporated or chartered in Bermuda or the Cayman Islands, and such 
entity's sealed bid or competitive proposal shows that such entity was 
previously incorporated in the United States.
    Sec. 511.  None of the funds made available by this Act may be used 
to prepare, propose, or promulgate any regulation or guidance that 
references or relies on the analysis contained in ``Technical Support 
Document: - Social Cost of Carbon for Regulatory Impact Analysis - 
Under Executive Order 12866'' issued by the Interagency Working Group 
on Social Cost of Carbon, United States Government (February 2010), 
``Technical Support Document: - Technical Update of the Social Cost of 
Carbon for Regulatory Impact Analysis - Under Executive Order 12866'' 
issued by the Interagency Working Group on Social Cost of Carbon, 
United States Government (May 2013), ``Technical Support Document - 
Technical Update of the Social Cost of Carbon for Regulatory Impact 
Analysis - Under Executive Order 12866'' issued by the Interagency 
Working Group on Social Cost of Carbon, United States Government 
(revised November 2013), or ``Technical Support Document - Technical 
Update of the Social Cost of Carbon for Regulatory Impact Analysis - 
Under Executive Order No. 12866'', published at 78 Fed. Reg. 228 
(November 26, 2013).
    Sec. 512.  None of the funds made available by this Act may be used 
by the Department of Energy to apply the report entitled ``Life Cycle 
Greenhouse Gas Perspective on Exporting Liquefied Natural Gas from the 
United States'', published in the Federal Register on June 4, 2014 (79 
Fed. Reg. 32260), in any public interest determination under section 3 
of the Natural Gas Act (15 U.S.C. 717b).
    Sec. 513.  None of the funds made available by this Act may be used 
to lease or purchase new light duty vehicles for any executive fleet, 
or for an agency's fleet inventory, except in accordance with 
Presidential Memorandum--Federal Fleet Performance, dated May 24, 2011.
    Sec. 514.  None of the funds made available in this Act may be used 
to enter into a contract with any person whose disclosures of a 
proceeding with a disposition listed in section 2313(c)(1) of title 41, 
United States Code, in the Federal Awardee Performance and Integrity 
Information System include the term ``Fair Labor Standards Act.''.
    Sec. 515.  None of the funds made available by this Act may be used 
to enter into a contract with any offeror or any of its principals if 
the offeror certifies, as required by Federal Acquisition Regulation, 
that the offeror or any of its principals--
            (1) within a 3-year period preceding this offer has been 
        convicted of or had a civil judgment rendered against it for: 
        commission of fraud or a criminal offense in connection with 
        obtaining, attempting to obtain, or performing a public 
        (Federal, State, or local) contract or subcontract; violation 
        of Federal or State antitrust statutes relating to the 
        submission of offers; or commission of embezzlement, theft, 
        forgery, bribery, falsification or destruction of records, 
        making false statements, tax evasion, violating Federal 
        criminal tax laws, or receiving stolen property;
            (2) are presently indicted for, or otherwise criminally or 
        civilly charged by a governmental entity with, commission of 
        any of the offenses enumerated above in paragraph (1); or
            (3) within a 3-year period preceding this offer, has been 
        notified of any delinquent Federal taxes in an amount that 
        exceeds $3,000 for which the liability remains unsatisfied.
    Sec. 516.  None of the funds made available by this Act may be used 
for the study of the Missouri River Projects authorized in section 108 
of the Energy and Water Development and Related Agencies Appropriations 
Act, 2009 (division C of Public Law 111-8).
    Sec. 517.  None of the funds made available by this Act may be used 
to continue the study conducted by the Army Corps of Engineers pursuant 
to section 5018(a)(1) of the Water Resources Development Act of 2007 
(Public Law 110-114).
    Sec. 518.  None of the funds made available by this Act may be used 
to implement, administer, or enforce the order entitled ``Order 
Accepting Proposed Tariff Revisions and Establishing a Technical 
Conference'' issued by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission on 
August 13, 2013 (Docket No. ER13-1380-000).
    Sec. 519.  None of the funds made available in this Act may be used 
within the borders of the State of Louisiana by the Mississippi Valley 
Division or the Southwestern Division of the Army Corps of Engineers or 
any district of the Corps within such divisions to implement or enforce 
the mitigation methodology, referred to as the ``Modified Charleston 
Method''.
    Sec. 520.  None of the funds made available by this Act may be used 
for ``DE-FOA0000697: Sustainable Cities: Urban Energy Planning for 
Smart Growth in China and India''.
    Sec. 521.  None of the funds made available by this Act may be used 
to pay the salary of any officer or employee to carry out section 301 
of the Hoover Power Plant Act of 1984 (42 U.S.C. 16421a; added by 
section 402 of the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 
(Public Law 111-5)).
    Sec. 522.  None of the funds made available by this Act may be used 
to carry out section 801 of the Energy Independence and Security Act of 
2007 (42 U.S.C. 17281).
    Sec. 523.  None of the funds made available by this Act may be used 
to transform the National Energy Technology Laboratory into a 
government-owned, contractor-operated laboratory, or to consolidate or 
close the National Energy Technology Laboratory.
    Sec. 524.  None of the funds made available by this Act may be used 
for the Cape Wind Energy Project on the Outer Continental Shelf off 
Massachusetts, Nantucket Sound.
    Sec. 525.  None of the funds made available by this Act may be used 
to implement, administer, or enforce Executive Order No. 13547 (75 Fed. 
Reg. 43023, relating to the stewardship of oceans, coasts, and the 
Great Lakes), including the National Ocean Policy developed under such 
Executive order.
    Sec. 526.  None of the funds made available by this Act may be used 
to award grants or provide funding for high-efficiency toilets or 
indoor water-efficient toilets.
    Sec. 527.  None of the funds made available by this Act may be used 
in contravention of section 210(d)(1)(B)(ii) of the Water Resources 
Development Act of 1986 (33 U.S.C. 2238(d)(1)(B)(ii)).
    Sec. 528.  None of the funds made available in this Act may be 
used--
            (1) to implement or enforce section 430.32(x) of title 10, 
        Code of Federal Regulations; or
            (2) to implement or enforce the standards established by 
        the tables contained in section 325(i)(1)(B) of the Energy 
        Policy and Conservation Act (42 U.S.C. 6295(i)(1)(B)) with 
        respect to BPAR incandescent reflector lamps, BR incandescent 
        reflector lamps, and ER incandescent reflector lamps.
    Sec. 529.  None of the funds made available by this Act may be used 
to regulate activities identified in subparagraphs (A) and (C) of 
section 404(f)(1) of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act (33 U.S.C. 
1344(f)(1)(A), (C)) or to limit the exemption in section 404(f)(1)(A) 
of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act (33 U.S.C. 1344(f)(1)(A)) to 
established or ongoing operations.

                        offshore drilling permit

    Sec. 530. No funds made available by this Act may be used by the 
Department of Energy to block approval of offshore drilling permits.
    Sec. 531.  None of the funds made available by this Act may be used 
to design, implement, administer, or carry out the United States Global 
Climate Research Program National Climate Assessment, the 
Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change's Fifth Assessment Report, 
the United Nation's Agenda 21 sustainable development plan, the May 
2013 Technical Update of the Social Cost of Carbon for Regulatory 
Impact Analysis Under Executive Order No. 12866, or the July 2014 
Sustainable Development Solutions Network and Institute for Sustainable 
Development and International Relations' pathways to deep 
decarbonization report.
    Sec. 532.  None of the funds made available by this Act may be used 
for the Department of Energy's Climate Model Development and Validation 
program.
    This Act may be cited as the ``Energy and Water Development and 
Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2015''.

            Passed the House of Representatives July 10, 2014.

            Attest:

                                                 KAREN L. HAAS,

                                                                 Clerk.
