
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 1170 Reported in House (RH)]

                                                 Union Calendar No. 215
113th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                H. R. 1170

                          [Report No. 113-297]

 To direct the Secretary of the Interior, acting through the Bureau of 
Land Management and the Bureau of Reclamation, to convey, by quitclaim 
deed, to the City of Fernley, Nevada, all right, title, and interest of 
 the United States, to any Federal land within that city that is under 
             the jurisdiction of either of those agencies.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                             March 14, 2013

  Mr. Amodei introduced the following bill; which was referred to the 
                     Committee on Natural Resources

                           December 16, 2013

  Reported with an amendment, committed to the Committee of the Whole 
       House on the State of the Union, and ordered to be printed
 [Strike out all after the enacting clause and insert the part printed 
                               in italic]
 [For text of introduced bill, see copy of bill as introduced on March 
                               14, 2013]


_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
 To direct the Secretary of the Interior, acting through the Bureau of 
Land Management and the Bureau of Reclamation, to convey, by quitclaim 
deed, to the City of Fernley, Nevada, all right, title, and interest of 
 the United States, to any Federal land within that city that is under 
             the jurisdiction of either of those agencies.


 


    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. DEFINITIONS.

    In this Act:
            (1) City.--The term ``City'' means the City of Fernley, 
        Nevada.
            (2) Federal land.--The term ``Federal land'' means the 
        approximately 9,407 acres of land located in the City of 
        Fernley, Nevada, that is identified by the Secretary and the 
        City for conveyance under this Act.
            (3) Map.--The term ``map'' means the map entitled 
        ``Proposed Fernley, Nevada, Land Sales'' and dated January 25, 
        2013.

SEC. 2. CONVEYANCE OF CERTAIN FEDERAL LAND TO CITY OF FERNLEY, NEVADA.

    (a) Conveyance Authorized.--Subject to valid existing rights and 
not later than 180 days after the date on which the Secretary of the 
Interior receives an offer from the City to purchase the Federal land 
depicted on the map, the Secretary, acting through the Bureau of Land 
Management and the Bureau of Reclamation, shall convey, notwithstanding 
the land use planning requirements of sections 202 and 203 of the 
Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1712, 1713), 
to the City in exchange for consideration in an amount equal to the 
fair market value of the Federal land, all right, title, and interest 
of the United States in and to such Federal land.
    (b) Appraisal To Determine Fair Market Value.--The Secretary shall 
determine the fair market value of the Federal land to be conveyed--
            (1) in accordance with the Federal Land Policy and 
        Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.); and
            (2) based on an appraisal that is conducted in accordance 
        with nationally recognized appraisal standards, including--
                    (A) the Uniform Appraisal Standards for Federal 
                Land Acquisition; and
                    (B) the Uniform Standards of Professional Appraisal 
                Practice.
    (c) Availability of Map.--The map shall be on file and available 
for public inspection in the appropriate offices of the Bureau of Land 
Management.
    (d) Reservation of Easements and Rights-of-Way.--The City and the 
Bureau of Reclamation may retain easements or rights-of-way on the 
Federal land to be conveyed, including easements or rights-of-way the 
Bureau of Reclamation determines are necessary to carry out--
            (1) the operation and maintenance of the Truckee Canal; or
            (2) the Newlands Project.
    (e) Costs.--The City shall, at closing for the conveyance 
authorized under subsection (a), pay or reimburse the Secretary, as 
appropriate, for the reasonable transaction and administrative 
personnel costs associated with the conveyance authorized under such 
subsection, including the costs of appraisal, title searches, maps, and 
boundary and cadastral surveys.
    (f) Conveyance Not a Major Federal Action.--A conveyance or a 
combination of conveyances made under this section shall not be 
considered a major Federal action for purposes of section 102(2) of the 
National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 4332(2)).

SEC. 3. RELEASE OF UNITED STATES.

    Upon making the conveyance under section 2, notwithstanding any 
other provision of law, the United States is released from any and all 
liabilities or claims of any kind or nature arising from the presence, 
release, or threat of release of any hazardous substance, pollutant, 
contaminant, petroleum product (or derivative of a petroleum product of 
any kind), solid waste, mine materials or mining related features 
(including tailings, overburden, waste rock, mill remnants, pits, or 
other hazards resulting from the presence of mining related features) 
on the Federal land in existence on or before the date of the 
conveyance.

SEC. 4. WITHDRAWAL.

    Subject to valid existing rights, the Federal land to be conveyed 
under section 2 of this Act shall be withdrawn from all forms of--
            (1) entry, appropriation, or disposal under the public land 
        laws;
            (2) location, entry, and patent under the mining laws; and
            (3) disposition under the mineral leasing, mineral 
        materials, and geothermal leasing laws.
                                                 Union Calendar No. 215

113th CONGRESS

  1st Session

                               H. R. 1170

                          [Report No. 113-297]

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL

 To direct the Secretary of the Interior, acting through the Bureau of 
Land Management and the Bureau of Reclamation, to convey, by quitclaim 
deed, to the City of Fernley, Nevada, all right, title, and interest of 
 the United States, to any Federal land within that city that is under 
             the jurisdiction of either of those agencies.

_______________________________________________________________________

                           December 16, 2013

  Reported with an amendment, committed to the Committee of the Whole 
       House on the State of the Union, and ordered to be printed
