
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 1782 Introduced in House (IH)]

113th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                H. R. 1782

 To require the Secretary of the Interior to conduct offshore oil and 
   gas Lease Sale 220 as soon as practicable, and for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                             April 26, 2013

Mr. Rigell (for himself, Mr. Wittman, Mr. Griffith of Virginia, and Mr. 
    Hurt) introduced the following bill; which was referred to the 
                     Committee on Natural Resources

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
 To require the Secretary of the Interior to conduct offshore oil and 
   gas Lease Sale 220 as soon as practicable, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Virginia Jobs and Energy Act''.

SEC. 2. LEASE SALE 220 AND OTHER OCS OIL AND GAS LEASE SALES OFFSHORE 
              VIRGINIA.

    (a) Conduct of Lease Sale.--Notwithstanding inclusion in the 
current 5-year oil and gas leasing program under section 18 of the 
Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act (43 U.S.C. 1344), the Secretary of 
the Interior shall conduct lease sale 220 (as defined in the Draft 
Proposed Outer Continental Shelf (OCS) Oil and Gas Leasing Program for 
2010-2015 as published in the Federal Register on January 21, 2009 (74 
Fed. Reg. 3631)) under section 8 of such Act (43 U.S.C. 1337) as soon 
as practicable, but not later than 1 year after the date of enactment 
of this Act.
    (b) Inclusion in Future Leasing Programs.--The Secretary of the 
Interior shall include at least one lease sale in the Virginia lease 
sale planning area in each 5-year oil and gas leasing program that 
applies after the current leasing program.

SEC. 3. PROTECTION OF MILITARY OPERATIONS.

    (a) Prohibition.--No person may engage in any exploration, 
development, or production of oil or natural gas off the coast of 
Virginia that would conflict with any military operation, as determined 
in accordance with the Memorandum of Agreement between the Department 
of Defense and the Department of the Interior on Mutual Concerns on the 
Outer Continental Shelf signed July 20, 1983, and any revision or 
replacement for that agreement that is agreed to by the Secretary of 
Defense and the Secretary of the Interior after that date but before 
the date of issuance of the lease under which such exploration, 
development, or production is conducted.
    (b) Review and Updating of MOA.--The Secretary of the Interior and 
the Secretary of Defense shall periodically review and revise such 
memorandum of agreement to account for new offshore energy production 
technologies, including those that use wind energy.

SEC. 4. DISPOSITION OF REVENUE.

    (a) Payment of New Leasing Revenues to Mid-Atlantic States.--
Notwithstanding section 9 of the Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act (43 
U.S.C. 1338), of the amount of new leasing revenues received by the 
United States each fiscal year under any lease issued under this Act, 
37.5 percent shall be allocated and paid in accordance with subsection 
(b) to Mid-Atlantic States that are affected States with respect to the 
leases under which those revenues are received by the United States.
    (b) Allocation of Payments.--
            (1) In general.--The amount of new leasing revenues 
        received by the United States with respect to a leased tract 
        that are required to be paid to Mid-Atlantic States in 
        accordance with this subsection each fiscal year shall be 
        allocated among and paid to Mid-Atlantic States that are within 
        200 miles of the leased tract, in amounts that are inversely 
        proportional to the respective distances between the point on 
        the coastline of each such State that is closest to the 
        geographic center of the lease tract, as determined by the 
        Secretary.
            (2) Minimum and maximum allocation.--The amount allocated 
        to a Mid-Atlantic State under paragraph (1) each fiscal year 
        with respect to a leased tract shall be--
                    (A) in the case of a Mid-Atlantic State that is the 
                nearest Mid-Atlantic State to the geographic center of 
                the leased tract, not less than 25 percent of the total 
                amounts allocated with respect to the leased tract; and
                    (B) in the case of any other Mid-Atlantic State, 
                not less than 10 percent, and not more than 15 percent, 
                of the total amounts allocated with respect to the 
                leased tract.
            (3) Administration.--Amounts allocated to a Mid-Atlantic 
        State under this subsection--
                    (A) shall be available to the State without further 
                appropriation;
                    (B) shall remain available until expended; and
                    (C) shall be in addition to any other amounts 
                available to the State under the Outer Continental 
                Shelf Lands Act (43 U.S.C. 1331 et seq.).
            (4) Use of funds.--
                    (A) In general.--Except as provided in subparagraph 
                (B), a Mid-Atlantic State may use funds allocated and 
                paid to it under this subsection for any purpose as 
                determined by the laws of that State.
                    (B) Restriction on use for matching.--Funds 
                allocated and paid to a Mid-Atlantic State under this 
                subsection may not be used as matching funds for any 
                other Federal program.
    (c) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Affected state.--The term ``affected State'' has the 
        meaning that term has under section 2 of the Outer Continental 
        Shelf Lands Act (43 U.S.C. 1331).
            (2) Mid-atlantic state.--The term ``Mid-Atlantic State'' 
        means each of the States of Delaware, North Carolina, Maryland, 
        and Virginia.
            (3) New leasing revenues.--The term ``new leasing 
        revenues'' means amounts received by the United States as 
        bonuses, rents, and royalties under leases for oil and gas, 
        wind, tidal, or other energy exploration, development, and 
        production on areas of the Outer Continental Shelf that are 
        authorized to be made available for leasing as a result of 
        enactment of this Act.
            (4) Virginia lease sale planning area.--The term ``Virginia 
        lease sale planning area'' means the area of the outer 
        Continental Shelf (as that term is defined in the Outer 
        Continental Shelf Lands Act (33 U.S.C. 1331 et seq.)) that 
        has--
                    (A) a boundary consisting of a straight line 
                extending from the northernmost point of Virginia's 
                seaward boundary to the point on the seaward boundary 
                of the United States exclusive economic zone located at 
                37 degrees 17 minutes 1 second North latitude, 71 
                degrees 5 minutes 16 seconds West longitude; and
                    (B) a southern boundary consisting of a straight 
                line extending from the southernmost point of 
                Virginia's seaward boundary to the point on the seaward 
                boundary of the United States exclusive economic zone 
                located at 36 degrees 31 minutes 58 seconds North 
                latitude, 71 degrees 30 minutes 1 second West 
                longitude.

SEC. 5. OFFSHORE METEOROLOGICAL SITE TESTING AND MONITORING PROJECTS.

    (a) Offshore Meteorological Project Permitting.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary of the Interior shall by 
        regulation require that any applicant seeking to conduct an 
        offshore meteorological site testing and monitoring project on 
        the outer Continental Shelf (as that term is defined in the 
        Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act (43 U.S.C. 1331 et seq.)) 
        must obtain a permit and right of way for the project in 
        accordance with this subsection.
            (2) Permit and right-of-way timeline and conditions.--
                    (A) Deadline for approval.--The Secretary shall 
                decide whether to issue a permit and right of way for 
                an offshore meteorological site testing and monitoring 
                project within 30 days after receiving an application.
                    (B) Public comment and consultation.--During the 
                period referred to in subparagraph (A), the Secretary 
                shall--
                            (i) provide an opportunity for submission 
                        of comments by the public; and
                            (ii) consult with the Secretary of Defense, 
                        the Commandant of the Coast Guard, and the 
                        heads of other Federal, State, and local 
                        agencies that would be affected by issuance of 
                        the permit and right of way.
                    (C) Denial of permit; opportunity to remedy 
                deficiencies.--If the application is denied, the 
                Secretary shall provide the applicant--
                            (i) in writing, clear and comprehensive 
                        reasons why the application was not approved 
                        and detailed information concerning any 
                        deficiencies in the application; and
                            (ii) an opportunity to remedy such 
                        deficiencies.
    (b) NEPA Exclusion.--Section 102(2)(C) of the National 
Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 4332(2)(C)) shall not apply 
with respect to an offshore meteorological site testing and monitoring 
project.
    (c) Protection of Information.--The information provided to the 
Secretary of the Interior pursuant to subsection (d)(3) shall be 
treated by the Secretary as proprietary information and protected 
against disclosure.
    (d) Definition of an Offshore Meteorological Site Testing and 
Monitoring Project.--In this section, the term ``offshore 
meteorological site testing and monitoring project'' means a project 
carried out on or in the waters of the Outer Continental Shelf 
administered by the Department of the Interior to test or monitor 
weather (including wind, tidal, current, and solar energy) using 
towers, buoys, or other temporary ocean infrastructure, that--
            (1) causes--
                    (A) less than 1 acre of surface or seafloor 
                disruption at the location of each meteorological tower 
                or other device; and
                    (B) not more than 5 acres of surface or seafloor 
                disruption within the proposed area affected by the 
                project (including hazards to navigation);
            (2) is decommissioned not more than 5 years after the date 
        of commencement of the project, including--
                    (A) removal of towers, buoys, or other temporary 
                ocean infrastructure from the project site; and
                    (B) restoration of the project site to 
                approximately the original condition of the site; and
            (3) provides meteorological information obtained by the 
        project to the Secretary of the Interior.
                                 <all>
