
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 694 Introduced in House (IH)]

113th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                H. R. 694

To amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to prevent the avoidance by 
                 corporations of tax on foreign income.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                           February 14, 2013

Ms. Schakowsky introduced the following bill; which was referred to the 
                      Committee on Ways and Means

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
To amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to prevent the avoidance by 
                 corporations of tax on foreign income.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Corporate Tax Fairness Act''.

SEC. 2. DEFERRAL OF ACTIVE INCOME OF CONTROLLED FOREIGN CORPORATIONS.

    Section 952 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 is amended by 
adding at the end the following new subsection:
    ``(d) Special Application of Subpart.--
            ``(1) In general.--For taxable years beginning after 
        December 31, 2013, notwithstanding any other provision of this 
        subpart, the term `subpart F income' means, in the case of any 
        controlled foreign corporation, the income of such corporation 
        derived from any foreign country.
            ``(2) Applicable rules.--Rules similar to the rules under 
        the last sentence of subsection (a) and subsection (d) shall 
        apply to this subsection.''.

SEC. 3. MODIFICATIONS OF FOREIGN TAX CREDIT RULES APPLICABLE TO LARGE 
              INTEGRATED OIL COMPANIES WHICH ARE DUAL CAPACITY 
              TAXPAYERS.

    (a) In General.--Section 901 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 
is amended by redesignating subsection (n) as subsection (o) and by 
inserting after subsection (m) the following new subsection:
    ``(n) Special Rules Relating to Large Integrated Oil Companies 
Which Are Dual Capacity Taxpayers.--
            ``(1) General rule.--Notwithstanding any other provision of 
        this chapter, any amount paid or accrued by a dual capacity 
        taxpayer which is a large integrated oil company to a foreign 
        country or possession of the United States for any period shall 
        not be considered a tax--
                    ``(A) if, for such period, the foreign country or 
                possession does not impose a generally applicable 
                income tax, or
                    ``(B) to the extent such amount exceeds the amount 
                (determined in accordance with regulations) which--
                            ``(i) is paid by such dual capacity 
                        taxpayer pursuant to the generally applicable 
                        income tax imposed by the country or 
                        possession, or
                            ``(ii) would be paid if the generally 
                        applicable income tax imposed by the country or 
                        possession were applicable to such dual 
                        capacity taxpayer.
                Nothing in this paragraph shall be construed to imply 
                the proper treatment of any such amount not in excess 
                of the amount determined under subparagraph (B).
            ``(2) Dual capacity taxpayer.--For purposes of this 
        subsection, the term `dual capacity taxpayer' means, with 
        respect to any foreign country or possession of the United 
        States, a person who--
                    ``(A) is subject to a levy of such country or 
                possession, and
                    ``(B) receives (or will receive) directly or 
                indirectly a specific economic benefit (as determined 
                in accordance with regulations) from such country or 
                possession.
            ``(3) Generally applicable income tax.--For purposes of 
        this subsection--
                    ``(A) In general.--The term `generally applicable 
                income tax' means an income tax (or a series of income 
                taxes) which is generally imposed under the laws of a 
                foreign country or possession on income derived from 
                the conduct of a trade or business within such country 
                or possession.
                    ``(B) Exceptions.--Such term shall not include a 
                tax unless it has substantial application, by its terms 
                and in practice, to--
                            ``(i) persons who are not dual capacity 
                        taxpayers, and
                            ``(ii) persons who are citizens or 
                        residents of the foreign country or possession.
            ``(4) Large integrated oil company.--For purposes of this 
        subsection, the term `large integrated oil company' means, with 
        respect to any taxable year, an integrated oil company (as 
        defined in section 291(b)(4)) which--
                    ``(A) had gross receipts in excess of 
                $1,000,000,000 for such taxable year, and
                    ``(B) has an average daily worldwide production of 
                crude oil of at least 500,000 barrels for such taxable 
                year.''.
    (b) Effective Date.--
            (1) In general.--The amendments made by this section shall 
        apply to taxes paid or accrued in taxable years beginning after 
        the date of the enactment of this Act.
            (2) Contrary treaty obligations upheld.--The amendments 
        made by this section shall not apply to the extent contrary to 
        any treaty obligation of the United States.

SEC. 4. REINSTITUTION OF PER COUNTRY FOREIGN TAX CREDIT.

    (a) In General.--Subsection (a) of section 904 of the Internal 
Revenue Code of 1986 is amended to read as follows:
    ``(a) Limitation.--The amount of the credit in respect of the tax 
paid or accrued to any foreign country or possession of the United 
States shall not exceed the same proportion of the tax against which 
such credit is taken which the taxpayer's taxable income from sources 
within such country or possession (but not in excess of the taxpayer's 
entire taxable income) bears to such taxpayer's entire taxable income 
for the same taxable year.''.
    (b) Effective Date.--The amendment made by this section shall apply 
to taxable years beginning after December 31, 2013.

SEC. 5. TREATMENT OF FOREIGN CORPORATIONS MANAGED AND CONTROLLED IN THE 
              UNITED STATES AS DOMESTIC CORPORATIONS.

    (a) In General.--Section 7701 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 
is amended by redesignating subsection (p) as subsection (q) and by 
inserting after subsection (o) the following new subsection:
    ``(p) Certain Corporations Managed and Controlled in the United 
States Treated as Domestic for Income Tax.--
            ``(1) In general.--Notwithstanding subsection (a)(4), in 
        the case of a corporation described in paragraph (2) if--
                    ``(A) the corporation would not otherwise be 
                treated as a domestic corporation for purposes of this 
                title, but
                    ``(B) the management and control of the corporation 
                occurs, directly or indirectly, primarily within the 
                United States,
        then, solely for purposes of chapter 1 (and any other provision 
        of this title relating to chapter 1), the corporation shall be 
        treated as a domestic corporation.
            ``(2) Corporation described.--
                    ``(A) In general.--A corporation is described in 
                this paragraph if--
                            ``(i) the stock of such corporation is 
                        regularly traded on an established securities 
                        market, or
                            ``(ii) the aggregate gross assets of such 
                        corporation (or any predecessor thereof), 
                        including assets under management for 
                        investors, whether held directly or indirectly, 
                        at any time during the taxable year or any 
                        preceding taxable year is $50,000,000 or more.
                    ``(B) General exception.--A corporation shall not 
                be treated as described in this paragraph if--
                            ``(i) such corporation was treated as a 
                        corporation described in this paragraph in a 
                        preceding taxable year,
                            ``(ii) such corporation--
                                    ``(I) is not regularly traded on an 
                                established securities market, and
                                    ``(II) has, and is reasonably 
                                expected to continue to have, aggregate 
                                gross assets (including assets under 
                                management for investors, whether held 
                                directly or indirectly) of less than 
                                $50,000,000, and
                            ``(iii) the Secretary grants a waiver to 
                        such corporation under this subparagraph.
                    ``(C) Exception from gross assets test.--
                Subparagraph (A)(ii) shall not apply to a corporation 
                which is a controlled foreign corporation (as defined 
                in section 957) and which is a member of an affiliated 
                group (as defined section 1504, but determined without 
                regard to section 1504(b)(3)) the common parent of 
                which--
                            ``(i) is a domestic corporation (determined 
                        without regard to this subsection), and
                            ``(ii) has substantial assets (other than 
                        cash and cash equivalents and other than stock 
                        of foreign subsidiaries) held for use in the 
                        active conduct of a trade or business in the 
                        United States.
            ``(3) Management and control.--
                    ``(A) In general.--The Secretary shall prescribe 
                regulations for purposes of determining cases in which 
                the management and control of a corporation is to be 
                treated as occurring primarily within the United 
                States.
                    ``(B) Executive officers and senior management.--
                Such regulations shall provide that--
                            ``(i) the management and control of a 
                        corporation shall be treated as occurring 
                        primarily within the United States if 
                        substantially all of the executive officers and 
                        senior management of the corporation who 
                        exercise day-to-day responsibility for making 
                        decisions involving strategic, financial, and 
                        operational policies of the corporation are 
                        located primarily within the United States, and
                            ``(ii) individuals who are not executive 
                        officers and senior management of the 
                        corporation (including individuals who are 
                        officers or employees of other corporations in 
                        the same chain of corporations as the 
                        corporation) shall be treated as executive 
                        officers and senior management if such 
                        individuals exercise the day-to-day 
                        responsibilities of the corporation described 
                        in clause (i).
                    ``(C) Corporations primarily holding investment 
                assets.--Such regulations shall also provide that the 
                management and control of a corporation shall be 
                treated as occurring primarily within the United States 
                if--
                            ``(i) the assets of such corporation 
                        (directly or indirectly) consist primarily of 
                        as sets being managed on behalf of investors, 
                        and
                            ``(ii) decisions about how to invest the 
                        assets are made in the United States.''.
    (b) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this section shall 
apply to taxable years beginning on or after the date which is 2 years 
after the date of the enactment of this Act.
                                 <all>
