
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 3146 Introduced in House (IH)]

113th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                H. R. 3146

     To take steps to reduce the deficit of the Federal Government.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                           September 19, 2013

    Mr. Murphy of Florida (for himself, Mr. Coffman, Mr. Peters of 
 California, and Ms. Sinema) introduced the following bill; which was 
  referred to the Committee on Ways and Means, and in addition to the 
Committees on Armed Services, Foreign Affairs, the Judiciary, Financial 
     Services, House Administration, and Rules, for a period to be 
subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration 
  of such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the committee 
                               concerned

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
     To take steps to reduce the deficit of the Federal Government.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE; TABLE OF CONTENTS.

    (a) Short Title.--This Act may be cited as the ``Savings, 
Accountability, Value, and Efficiency II Act'' or ``SAVE II Act''.
    (b) Table of Contents.--The table of contents of this Act is as 
follows:

Sec. 1. Short title; table of contents.
Sec. 2. Department of Defense unmanned aircraft systems.
Sec. 3. Finalizing Department of Defense inventory management guidance.
Sec. 4. Revocation or denial of passport and passport card in case of 
                            certain unpaid taxes.
Sec. 5. Consideration of prospective antidumping and countervailing 
                            duty collection system.
Sec. 6. Report on effectiveness of foreign assistance programs and 
                            projects.
Sec. 7. Conversion of prison X-ray systems.
Sec. 8. Prohibition on non-cost effective minting and printing of coins 
                            and currency.
Sec. 9. Restrictions on printing and distribution of paper copies of 
                            Congressional documents.

SEC. 2. DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE UNMANNED AIRCRAFT SYSTEMS.

    (a) Examination To Improve Interoperability.--The UAS Task Force 
established by the Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition, 
Technology, and Logistics shall conduct an examination of the entire 
unmanned aircraft systems (UAS) portfolio of the Department of Defense, 
including UAS requirements, platforms, payloads, and ground control 
stations, for the purpose of developing strategies for improved 
interoperability of existing systems.
    (b) Incorporation in Acquisition Strategies.--In the acquisition 
strategies for each unmanned aircraft program commenced after the date 
of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall identify, 
prior to milestone B, areas in which commonality with other unmanned 
aircraft systems across the UAS portfolio will be achieved.
    (c) Independent Study.--The Secretary of Defense shall request a 
federally funded research and development center to conduct an 
independent study--
            (1) to analyze the effectiveness of the UAS Task Force in 
        addressing UAS interoperability and overlap issues;
            (2) to provide solutions, if needed, to existing 
        interoperability and overlap issues; and
            (3) to determine whether a single entity would be better 
        positioned than the UAS Task Force to integrate all 
        crosscutting efforts to improve the management and operation of 
        the UAS portfolio.
    (d) Report.--Not later than March 3, 2014, the Secretary of Defense 
shall submit to Congress a report containing the--
            (1) the results of the examination required by subsection 
        (a); and
            (2) the results of the independent study required by 
        subsection (c).

SEC. 3. FINALIZING DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE INVENTORY MANAGEMENT GUIDANCE.

    (a) Department of Defense Inventory Management Guidance.--As part 
of the implementation of the Department of Defense Comprehensive 
Inventory Management Improvement Plan, the Secretary of Defense shall 
issue revised inventory management guidance that--
            (1) strengthens demand forecasting, visibility of on-hand 
        inventory, reviews of on-order excess inventory, and management 
        of inventory held for economic and contingency reasons in order 
        to prevent on-order and on-hand excess inventory;
            (2) establishes a comprehensive, standardized set of 
        department-wide supply chain and inventory management metrics, 
        including standardized definitions, to measure five key 
        attributes (materiel readiness, responsiveness, reliability, 
        cost, and planning and precision) of supply chain management 
        operations; and
            (3) establishes procedures for measuring and reporting 
        these metrics on a regular basis to ensure the effectiveness 
        and cost-efficiency of supply chain and inventory management 
        operations.
    (b) Completion and Submission.--Not later than 270 days after the 
date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall 
complete the revision of inventory management guidance required by 
subsection (a) and submit the revised guidance to Congress.

SEC. 4. REVOCATION OR DENIAL OF PASSPORT AND PASSPORT CARD IN CASE OF 
              CERTAIN UNPAID TAXES.

    (a) In General.--Subchapter D of chapter 75 of the Internal Revenue 
Code of 1986 is amended by adding at the end the following new section:

``SEC. 7345. REVOCATION OR DENIAL OF PASSPORT AND PASSPORT CARD IN CASE 
              OF CERTAIN TAX DELINQUENCIES.

    ``(a) In General.--If the Secretary receives certification by the 
Commissioner of Internal Revenue that any individual has a seriously 
delinquent tax debt in an amount in excess of $50,000, the Secretary 
shall transmit such certification to the Secretary of State for action 
with respect to denial, revocation, or limitation of a passport or 
passport card pursuant to section 4 of the Act entitled `An Act to 
regulate the issue and validity of passports, and for other purposes', 
approved July 3, 1926 (22 U.S.C. 211a et seq.), commonly known as the 
`Passport Act of 1926'.
    ``(b) Seriously Delinquent Tax Debt.--For purposes of this section, 
the term `seriously delinquent tax debt' means an outstanding debt 
under this title for which a notice of lien has been filed in public 
records pursuant to section 6323 or a notice of levy has been filed 
pursuant to section 6331, except that such term does not include--
            ``(1) a debt that is being paid in a timely manner pursuant 
        to an agreement under section 6159 or 7122, and
            ``(2) a debt with respect to which collection is suspended 
        because a collection due process hearing under section 6330, or 
        relief under subsection (b), (c), or (f) of section 6015, is 
        requested or pending.
    ``(c) Adjustment for Inflation.--In the case of a calendar year 
beginning after 2013, the dollar amount in subsection (a) shall be 
increased by an amount equal to--
            ``(1) such dollar amount, multiplied by
            ``(2) the cost-of-living adjustment determined under 
        section 1(f)(3) for the calendar year, determined by 
        substituting `calendar year 2012' for `calendar year 1992' in 
        subparagraph (B) thereof.
If any amount as adjusted under the preceding sentence is not a 
multiple of $1,000, such amount shall be rounded to the next highest 
multiple of $1,000.''.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections for subchapter D of 
chapter 75 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 is amended by adding at 
the end the following new item:

``Sec. 7345. Revocation or denial of passport and passport card in case 
                            of certain tax delinquencies.''.
    (c) Authority for Information Sharing.--
            (1) In general.--Subsection (l) of section 6103 of the 
        Internal Revenue Code of 1986 is amended by adding at the end 
        the following new paragraph:
            ``(23) Disclosure of return information to department of 
        state for purposes of passport and passport card revocation 
        under section 7345.--
                    ``(A) In general.--The Secretary shall, upon 
                receiving a certification described in section 7345, 
                disclose to the Secretary of State return information 
                with respect to a taxpayer who has a seriously 
                delinquent tax debt described in such section. Such 
                return information shall be limited to--
                            ``(i) the taxpayer identity information 
                        with respect to such taxpayer, and
                            ``(ii) the amount of such seriously 
                        delinquent tax debt.
                    ``(B) Restriction on disclosure.--Return 
                information disclosed under subparagraph (A) may be 
                used by officers and employees of the Department of 
                State for the purposes of, and to the extent necessary 
                in, carrying out the requirements of section 4 of the 
                Act entitled `An Act to regulate the issue and validity 
                of passports, and for other purposes', approved July 3, 
                1926 (22 U.S.C. 211a et seq.), commonly known as the 
                `Passport Act of 1926'.''.
            (2) Conforming amendment.--Paragraph (4) of section 6103(p) 
        of such Code is amended by striking ``or (22)'' each place it 
        appears in subparagraph (F)(ii) and in the matter preceding 
        subparagraph (A) and inserting ``(22), or (23)''.
    (d) Revocation Authorization.--The Act entitled ``An Act to 
regulate the issue and validity of passports, and for other purposes'', 
approved July 3, 1926 (22 U.S.C. 211a et seq.), commonly known as the 
``Passport Act of 1926'', is amended by adding at the end the 
following:

``SEC. 4. AUTHORITY TO DENY OR REVOKE PASSPORT AND PASSPORT CARD.

    ``(a) Ineligibility.--
            ``(1) Issuance.--Except as provided under subsection (b), 
        upon receiving a certification described in section 7345 of the 
        Internal Revenue Code of 1986 from the Secretary of the 
        Treasury, the Secretary of State may not issue a passport or 
        passport card to any individual who has a seriously delinquent 
        tax debt described in such section.
            ``(2) Revocation.--The Secretary of State shall revoke a 
        passport or passport card previously issued to any individual 
        described in paragraph (1).
    ``(b) Exceptions.--
            ``(1) Emergency and humanitarian situations.--
        Notwithstanding subsection (a), the Secretary of State may 
        issue a passport or passport card, in emergency circumstances 
        or for humanitarian reasons, to an individual described in 
        paragraph (1) of such subsection.
            ``(2) Limitation for return to united states.--
        Notwithstanding subsection (a)(2), the Secretary of State, 
        before revocation, may--
                    ``(A) limit a previously issued passport or 
                passport card only for return travel to the United 
                States; or
                    ``(B) issue a limited passport or passport card 
                that only permits return travel to the United 
                States.''.
    (e) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this section shall take 
effect on January 1, 2014.

SEC. 5. CONSIDERATION OF PROSPECTIVE ANTIDUMPING AND COUNTERVAILING 
              DUTY COLLECTION SYSTEM.

    (a) Report Required.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Commerce shall submit to 
Congress a report containing an evaluation of the merits and 
feasibility of converting from a retrospective antidumping and 
countervailing duty collection system to a prospective antidumping and 
countervailing duty collection system. If the Secretary recommends 
conversion to a particular prospective system, the Secretary shall 
include in the report an estimate of the costs to be incurred and cost 
savings to be achieved as a result of converting to such prospective 
system.
    (b) Consultation.--The Secretary of Commerce shall prepare the 
report under subsection (a) in consultation with the Secretary of 
Homeland Security and Secretary of the Treasury.

SEC. 6. REPORT ON EFFECTIVENESS OF FOREIGN ASSISTANCE PROGRAMS AND 
              PROJECTS.

    (a) Report Required.--Not later than one year after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Inspector General of the United States 
Agency for International Development shall submit to Congress a report 
on the effectiveness of each foreign assistance program and project of 
the United States Agency for International Development.
    (b) Matters To Be Included.--The report required by subsection (a) 
shall, with respect to each such program and project, include a 
description of the following:
            (1) How funds and other resources provided to a foreign 
        entity under the program or project are spent or used.
            (2) The extent to which such funds and other resources are 
        spent or used in accordance with the purposes of the program or 
        project.
            (3) The extent to which such funds and other resources 
        assist in achieving the results intended for the program or 
        project.
            (4) The extent to which there is a correlation between the 
        program or project and a change in the policies or popular 
        attitudes towards the United States in the foreign country in 
        which the program or project is carried out.

SEC. 7. CONVERSION OF PRISON X-RAY SYSTEMS.

    The Attorney General, in order to reduce the cost and improve the 
efficacy of Federal prison health care, shall, to the extent 
practicable and cost effective, convert by 2015 all X-ray systems in 
Federal prisons from analog, film-based systems to digital, filmless 
systems.

SEC. 8. PROHIBITION ON NON-COST EFFECTIVE MINTING AND PRINTING OF COINS 
              AND CURRENCY.

    (a) Prohibition With Respect to Coins.--Section 5111 of title 31, 
United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following:
    ``(e) Prohibition on Certain Minting.--Notwithstanding any other 
provision of this subchapter, the Secretary may not mint or issue any 
coin that costs more to produce than the denomination of the coin 
(including labor, materials, dies, use of machinery, overhead expenses, 
marketing, and shipping).''.
    (b) Prohibition With Respect to Currency.--Section 5114(a) of title 
31, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following:
            ``(4) Prohibition on certain printing.--Notwithstanding any 
        other provision of this subchapter, the Secretary may not 
        engrave or print any United States currency that costs more to 
        produce than the denomination of the currency (including labor, 
        materials, dies, use of machinery, overhead expenses, 
        marketing, and shipping).''.

SEC. 9. RESTRICTIONS ON PRINTING AND DISTRIBUTION OF PAPER COPIES OF 
              CONGRESSIONAL DOCUMENTS.

    (a) Printing and Distribution of Documents by Public Printer.--
            (1) Restrictions.--Chapter 7 of title 44, United States 
        Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new 
        section:
``Sec. 742. Restrictions on printing and distribution of paper copies
    ``(a) Mandatory Use of Electronic Format for Distribution of 
Congressional Documents.--Notwithstanding any other provision of this 
chapter, the Public Printer shall make any document of the House of 
Representatives or Senate which is subject to any of the provisions of 
this chapter available only in an electronic format which is accessible 
through the Internet, and may not print or distribute a printed copy of 
the document except as provided in subsection (b).
    ``(b) Permitting Printing and Distribution of Printed Copies Upon 
Request.--Notwithstanding subsection (a), at the request of any person 
to whom the Public Printer would have been required to provide a 
printed copy of a document under this chapter had subsection (a) not 
been in effect, the Public Printer may print and distribute a copy of a 
document or report for the use of that person, except that--
            ``(1) the number of printed copies the Public Printer may 
        provide to the person may not exceed the number of printed 
        copies the Public Printer would have provided to the person had 
        subsection (a) not been in effect; and
            ``(2) the Public Printer may print and distribute copies to 
        the person only upon payment by the person of the costs of 
        printing and distributing the copies, except that this 
        paragraph shall not apply to an office of the House of 
        Representatives or Senate (including the office of a Member of 
        Congress).''.
            (2) Clerical amendment.--The table of sections of chapter 7 
        of such title is amended by adding at the end following new 
        item:

``742. Restrictions on printing and distribution of paper copies.''.
    (b) Provision of Documents in Electronic Format Deemed To Meet 
Requirements of House and Senate Rules Regarding Distribution of 
Printed Copies.--
            (1) In general.--If any rule or regulation of the House of 
        Representatives or Senate requires a Member or committee to 
        provide printed copies of any document (including any bill or 
        resolution) for the use of the House or Senate or for the use 
        of any office of the House or Senate, the Member or committee 
        shall be considered to have met the requirement of the rule or 
        regulation if the Member or committee makes the document 
        available to the recipient in an electronic format.
            (2) Exercise of rulemaking authority of senate and house.--
        This subsection is enacted by Congress--
                    (A) as an exercise of the rulemaking power of the 
                Senate and House of Representatives, respectively, and 
                as such it is deemed a part of the rules of each House, 
                respectively, and it supersedes other rules only to the 
                extent that it is inconsistent with such rules; and
                    (B) with full recognition of the constitutional 
                right of either House to change the rules (so far as 
                relating to the procedure of that House) at any time, 
                in the same manner, and to the same extent as in the 
                case of any other rule of that House.
    (c) Effective Date.--This section and the amendments made by this 
section shall apply with respect to documents produced on or after 
January 1, 2015.
                                 <all>
