
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 2259 Placed on Calendar Senate (PCS)]

                                                       Calendar No. 314
113th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                H. R. 2259


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                             March 5, 2014

            Received; read twice and placed on the calendar

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 AN ACT


 
   To withdraw certain Federal land and interests in that land from 
location, entry, and patent under the mining laws and disposition under 
 the mineral and geothermal leasing laws and to preserve existing uses.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``North Fork Watershed Protection Act 
of 2014''.

SEC. 2. DEFINITIONS.

    In this Act:
            (1) Eligible federal land.--The term ``eligible Federal 
        land'' means--
                    (A) any federally owned land or interest in land 
                depicted on the Map as within the North Fork Federal 
                Lands Withdrawal Area; or
                    (B) any land or interest in land located within the 
                North Fork Federal Lands Withdrawal Area that is 
                acquired by the Federal Government after the date of 
                enactment of this Act.
            (2) Map.--The term ``Map'' means the Bureau of Land 
        Management map entitled ``North Fork Federal Lands Withdrawal 
        Area'' and dated June 9, 2010.

SEC. 3. WITHDRAWAL.

    (a) Withdrawal.--Subject to valid existing rights, the eligible 
Federal land is withdrawn from--
            (1) all forms of location, entry, and patent under the 
        mining laws; and
            (2) disposition under all laws relating to mineral leasing 
        and geothermal leasing.
    (b) Availability of Map.--Not later than 30 days after the date of 
enactment of this Act, the Map shall be made available to the public at 
each appropriate office of the Bureau of Land Management.
    (c) Effect of Section.--Nothing in this section violates the rights 
of existing leaseholders or prohibits the Secretary of the Interior 
from taking any action necessary to complete any requirement under the 
National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 4321 et seq.) or 
the Endangered Species Act of 1973 (16 U.S.C. 1531 et seq.) required 
for permitting surface-disturbing activity to occur on any lease issued 
before the date of enactment of this Act.

SEC. 4. EXISTING USES NOT AFFECTED.

    Except with respect to the withdrawal under section 3, nothing in 
this Act restricts recreational uses, livestock management activities, 
or forest management activities allowed on the date of the enactment of 
this Act on the eligible Federal land in accordance with applicable 
law.

            Passed the House of Representatives March 4, 2014.

            Attest:

                                                 KAREN L. HAAS,

                                                                 Clerk.
                                                       Calendar No. 314

113th CONGRESS

  2d Session

                               H. R. 2259

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 AN ACT

   To withdraw certain Federal land and interests in that land from 
location, entry, and patent under the mining laws and disposition under 
 the mineral and geothermal leasing laws and to preserve existing uses.

_______________________________________________________________________

                             March 5, 2014

            Received; read twice and placed on the calendar
