
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H. Con. Res. 119 Engrossed in House (EH)]

113th CONGRESS
  2d Session
H. CON. RES. 119

_______________________________________________________________________

                         CONCURRENT RESOLUTION

    Resolved by the House of Representatives (the Senate concurring), 
That when the House adjourns on any legislative day from Thursday, 
November 20, 2014, through Friday, November 28, 2014, on a motion 
offered pursuant to this concurrent resolution by its Majority Leader 
or his designee, it stand adjourned until 2:00 p.m. on Monday, December 
1, 2014, or until the time of any


              

 reassembly pursuant to section 2 of this concurrent resolution, 
whichever occurs first; and that when the Senate recesses or adjourns 
on any day from Thursday, November 20, 2014, through Friday, November 
28, 2014, on a motion offered pursuant to this concurrent resolution by 
its Majority Leader or his designee, it stand recessed or adjourned 
until noon on Monday, December 1, 2014, or such other time on that day 
as may be specified by its Majority Leader or his designee in the 
motion to recess or adjourn, or until the time of any reassembly 
pursuant to section 3 of this concurrent resolution, whichever occurs 
first.
    Sec. 2. (a) The Speaker or his designee, after consultation with 
the Minority Leader of the House, shall notify Members of the House to 
reassemble at such place and time as he may designate if, in his 
opinion, the public interest shall warrant it.
    (b) After reassembling pursuant to subsection (a), when the House 
adjourns on a motion offered pursuant to this subsection by its 
Majority Leader or his designee, the House shall again stand adjourned 
pursuant to the first section of this concurrent resolution.
    Sec. 3. (a) The Majority Leader of the Senate or his designee, 
after concurrence with the Minority Leader of the Senate, shall notify 
the Members of the Senate to reassemble at such place and time as he 
may designate if, in his opinion, the public interest shall warrant it.
    (b) After reassembling pursuant to subsection (a), when the Senate 
adjourns on a motion offered pursuant to this subsection by its 
Majority Leader or his designee, the Senate shall again stand adjourned 
pursuant to the first section of this concurrent resolution.

            Passed the House of Representatives November 20, 2014.

            Attest:

                                                                 Clerk.
113th CONGRESS

  2d Session

                            H. CON. RES. 119

_______________________________________________________________________

                         CONCURRENT RESOLUTION

Providing for a conditional adjournment of the House of Representatives 
         and a conditional recess or adjournment of the Senate.
