
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 938 Introduced in House (IH)]

113th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                H. R. 938

  To strengthen the strategic alliance between the United States and 
                    Israel, and for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                             March 4, 2013

Ms. Ros-Lehtinen (for herself and Mr. Deutch) introduced the following 
 bill; which was referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs, and in 
  addition to the Committees on the Judiciary and Science, Space, and 
Technology, for a period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, 
 in each case for consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
                jurisdiction of the committee concerned

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
  To strengthen the strategic alliance between the United States and 
                    Israel, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``United States-Israel Strategic 
Partnership Act of 2013''.

SEC. 2. FINDINGS.

    Congress finds the following:
            (1) The turmoil in the Middle East poses a serious threat 
        to United States national security interests and requires 
        cooperation with allies that are willing to work with the 
        United States in pursuit of shared objectives.
            (2) The October 31, 1998, Memorandum of Agreement signed by 
        President Clinton and Prime Minister Netanyahu commits the 
        United States to working jointly with Israel towards enhancing 
        Israel's defensive and deterrent capabilities and upgrading the 
        framework of the United States-Israel strategic and military 
        relationships, as well as the technological cooperation between 
        both countries.
            (3) On August 16, 2007, the United States and Israel signed 
        a Memorandum of Understanding reaffirming United States 
        commitment to the security of Israel and establishing a 10-year 
        framework for incremental increases in United States military 
        assistance to Israel.
            (4) The Memorandum of Understanding signed two years later 
        on January 16, 2009 reaffirmed the United States commitment and 
        noted ``the security, military and intelligence cooperation 
        between the United States and Israel''.
            (5) The United States and Israel conduct a semi-annual 
        Strategic Dialogue. The Department of State, in a statement 
        following the July 12, 2012, meeting of the Strategic Dialogue, 
        noted that the discussions focused on such issues of mutual 
        concern as ``Iran's continued quest to develop nuclear weapons, 
        which the United States and Israel are both determined to 
        prevent'' and ``how the continued violence of the Syrian regime 
        against its citizens [assisted by Iran and Hezbollah] could 
        also lead to severe consequences for the entire region''.

SEC. 3. DECLARATION OF POLICY.

    Congress declares that Israel is a major strategic partner of the 
United States.

SEC. 4. AMENDMENTS TO THE UNITED STATES-ISRAEL ENHANCED SECURITY 
              COOPERATION ACT OF 2012.

    (a) United States Actions To Assist in the Defense of Israel and 
Protect United States Interests.--Section 4 of the United States-Israel 
Enhanced Security Cooperation Act of 2012 (Public Law 112-150; 22 
U.S.C. 8603) is amended--
            (1) by striking ``It is the sense of Congress that the 
        United States Government should'' and inserting ``(a) In 
        General.--The President should, to the maximum extent 
        practicable,''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following:
    ``(b) Report.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this subsection, the President shall submit to Congress a 
report on the implementation of this section.''.
    (b) Extension of War Reserves Stockpile Authority.--Section 5(a) of 
the United States-Israel Enhanced Security Cooperation Act of 2012 
(Public Law 112-150) is amended to read as follows:
    ``(a) Extension of War Reserves Stockpile Authority.--
            ``(1) Department of defense appropriations act, 2005.--
        Section 12001(d) of the Department of Defense Appropriations 
        Act, 2005 (Public Law 108-287; 118 Stat. 1011), is amended by 
        striking `more than 10 years after' and inserting `more than 11 
        years after'.
            ``(2) Foreign assistance act of 1961.--Section 514(b)(2)(A) 
        of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 
        2321h(b)(2)(A)) is amended by striking `and 2014' and inserting 
        `, 2014, and 2015'.''.

SEC. 5. AUTHORIZATION OF ASSISTANCE FOR ISRAEL.

    (a) Finding.--Congress finds that Israel has adopted high standards 
in the field of export controls, including by becoming adherent to the 
Australia Group, the Missile Technology Control Regime, the Nuclear 
Suppliers Group, and the Wassenaar Arrangement, and by enacting robust 
legislation and regulations for the control of dual-use and defense 
items.
    (b) Expedited Licensing Procedures.--The President should include 
Israel on the list of destinations described in paragraph (c)(1) of 
section 740.20 of title 15, Code of Federal Regulations (relating to 
License Exception Strategic Trade Authorization).
    (c) Overseas Private Investment Corporation.--In carrying out its 
authorities under title IV of chapter 2 of part I of the Foreign 
Assistance Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 2191 et seq.), the Overseas Private 
Investment Corporation should consider giving preference to providing 
insurance, financing, or reinsurance for energy and water projects in 
Israel.
    (d) Energy, Water, Homeland Security, Agriculture, and Alternative 
Fuel Technologies.--
            (1) In general.--The President is authorized to carry out 
        United States-Israel cooperative activities and to provide 
        assistance promoting cooperation in the fields of energy, 
        water, homeland security, agriculture, and alternative fuel 
        technologies.
            (2) Requirements.--In carrying out paragraph (1), the 
        President is authorized to share and exchange with Israel 
        research, technology, intelligence, information, equipment, and 
        personnel that the President determines will advance the 
        national security interests of the United States and is 
        consistent with the Strategic Dialogue and pertinent provisions 
        of law--
                    (A) by enhancing scientific cooperation between 
                Israel and the United States; or
                    (B) by the sale, lease, exchange in kind, or other 
                techniques the President determines to be suitable.

SEC. 6. EXTENSION OF EXISTING AUTHORIZATION OF UNITED STATES-ISRAEL 
              ENERGY COOPERATION.

    Section 917(c) of the Energy Independence and Security Act of 2007 
(42 U.S.C. 17337(c)) is amended by striking ``7 years'' and inserting 
``17 years''.

SEC. 7. UNITED STATES-ISRAEL COOPERATION ON CYBER-SECURITY.

    It is a sense of Congress that the United States and Israel should 
take steps and explore avenues to increase cooperation on cyber-
security.

SEC. 8. STATEMENT OF UNITED STATES POLICY REGARDING ISRAEL'S DEFENSE 
              SYSTEMS.

    (a) Findings.--Congress--
            (1) commends the first phase completion of the David's 
        Sling Weapon System (DSWS) by the Israel Missile Defense 
        Organization and the U.S. Missile Defense Agency, which is 
        designed to provide additional opportunities for interception 
        by the joint United States-Israel Arrow Weapon System (Arrow 2 
        and Arrow 3);
            (2) congratulates the Israel Missile Defense Organization 
        and the U.S. Missile Defense Agency on successfully executing 
        the Arrow 3 flyout of a more advanced interceptor, which will 
        improve Israel's defenses against upper tier ballistic missile 
        threats from nations including Iran;
            (3) recognizes that during Operation Pillar of Defense in 
        November 2012, Israel deployed Iron Dome short-range rocket 
        defense batteries to intercept Hamas-launched rockets fired 
        from Gaza--of those rockets that posed a threat to the life of 
        Israeli citizens, 80 to 85 percent were successfully 
        intercepted, saving countless lives; and
            (4) agrees that, as stated by former Secretary of Defense 
        Leon Panetta, ``Iron Dome performed, I think it's fair to say, 
        remarkably well during the recent escalation . . . Iron Dome 
        does not start wars. It helps prevent wars.''.
    (b) Statement of Policy.--The President, acting through the 
Secretary of Defense and the Secretary of State, should provide 
assistance, upon request by the Government of Israel, for the 
enhancement of the David's Sling Weapon System, the enhancement of the 
joint United States-Israel Arrow Weapon System (Arrow 2 and Arrow 3), 
and the procurement and enhancement of the Iron Dome short-range rocket 
defense system for purposes of intercepting short-range rockets, 
missiles, and other projectiles launched against Israel.

SEC. 9. REPORT ON ELIGIBILITY OF ISRAEL FOR VISA WAIVER PROGRAM.

    (a) Statement of Policy.--It shall be the policy of the United 
States to include Israel in the list of countries that participate in 
the visa waiver program under section 217 of the Immigration and 
Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1187) when Israel satisfies the requirements 
for inclusion in such program specified in such section.
    (b) Report.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of State shall submit to the 
Committee on the Judiciary of the House of Representatives and the 
Committee on the Judiciary of the Senate a report on the extent to 
which Israel satisfies the requirements specified in section 217 of the 
Immigration and Nationality Act for inclusion in the visa waiver 
program under such section and what additional steps, if any, are 
required in order for Israel to qualify for inclusion in such program.
                                 <all>
