
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 1007 Introduced in House (IH)]

113th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                H. R. 1007

 To amend part D of title V of the Elementary and Secondary Education 
Act of 1965 to provide grants to schools for the development of asthma 
management plans and the purchase of asthma medications and devices for 
                      emergency use, as necessary.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                             March 6, 2013

   Mr. Grimm (for himself and Mr. Bishop of New York) introduced the 
 following bill; which was referred to the Committee on Education and 
                             the Workforce

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
 To amend part D of title V of the Elementary and Secondary Education 
Act of 1965 to provide grants to schools for the development of asthma 
management plans and the purchase of asthma medications and devices for 
                      emergency use, as necessary.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Asthma Management Plans in School 
Act''.

SEC. 2. ASTHMA MANAGEMENT PLANS.

    (a) Amendment.--Part D of title V of the Elementary and Secondary 
Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 7241 et seq.) is amended by adding at 
the end the following:

                 ``Subpart 22--Asthma Management Plans

``SEC. 5621. ASTHMA MANAGEMENT PLANS.

    ``(a) Grants Authorized.--
            ``(1) In general.--The Secretary is authorized to award a 
        grant to a school that receives funding under part A of title I 
        and is located in an area that the Secretary determines has a 
        high prevalence of asthma (using such indicators as emergency 
        department visits due to asthma, asthma hospitalization rates, 
        or the Behavioral Risk Factor Surveillance System), to enable 
        the school to--
                    ``(A) develop and implement an asthma management 
                plan; and
                    ``(B) purchase asthma inhalers, nebulizer machines, 
                valved holding chambers (VHCs), spacers, and auto-
                injectable epinephrine and appropriate supplies 
                determined necessary by the Secretary, for students, so 
                that every student served by the school who suffers 
                from asthma has access to the relief and treatment the 
                student needs during the school day.
            ``(2) Alternative grantees.--The Secretary may award a 
        grant under this section to a local health or education 
        department to carry out the activities described in this 
        section if the Secretary determines that in such local area 
        such department is the entity that would routinely carry out 
        such activities.
    ``(b) Application.--A school or department that desires to receive 
a grant under this section shall submit an application at such time, in 
such manner, and accompanied by such information as the Secretary may 
require.
    ``(c) Use of Grant Funds.--A school or department that receives a 
grant under this section shall develop and implement a comprehensive 
school asthma management plan, and may purchase asthma inhalers, 
nebulizer machines, valved holding chambers (VHCs), spacers, and auto-
injectable epinephrine for emergency use, for students served by the 
school or department, as needed, as well as devices that measure 
pulmonary function or asthma education tools, or both. Such management 
plan shall include the following:
            ``(1) A method to identify all students with a diagnosis of 
        asthma.
            ``(2) An asthma action plan for each student with a 
        diagnosis of asthma, developed in coordination with the family, 
        primary care provider, and others as necessary.
            ``(3) Asthma education for all school staff.
            ``(4) Access to medication and to methods to administer 
        medication, for all students served by the school or department 
        who have asthma, based on the student's prescription and 
        individual needs.
            ``(5) Asthma medication and emergency policies that are 
        specific to the school.
            ``(6) Protocols and training to support clinical management 
        of acute symptoms of asthma and ongoing management of asthma.
            ``(7) A system to support ongoing coordination of asthma 
        care with the family, the primary care provider, and others as 
        necessary.
            ``(8) A method to monitor the quality and outcomes of the 
        care provided to each student served by the school or 
        department who has asthma, including how often treatment is 
        needed and what treatment the students receives.
    ``(d) Grant Recipient Actions.--A school or department that 
receives a grant under this section shall--
            ``(1) utilize existing systems, when possible, including 
        the use of forms developed in accordance with section 504 forms 
        of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (20 U.S.C. 794);
            ``(2) find innovative ways--
                    ``(A) to encourage bidirectional communication 
                between schools and students' physicians in a rapid 
                manner; and
                    ``(B) to encourage students and their families to 
                ensure continued adherence to asthma treatment by 
                students; and
            ``(3) ensure that a nurse or another individual who is 
        trained to administer emergency asthma care is on staff.''.
    (b) Table of Contents.--The table of contents in section 2 of such 
Act is amended by inserting after the item relating to section 5618 the 
following:

                 ``subpart 22--asthma management plans

``Sec. 5621. Asthma management plans.''.
                                 <all>
