
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 327 Introduced in House (IH)]

113th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                H. R. 327

To establish requirements relating to the provision of certain products 
       to the Government of Afghanistan, and for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                            January 22, 2013

  Mr. Chaffetz (for himself and Mr. Tierney) introduced the following 
  bill; which was referred to the Committee on Armed Services, and in 
   addition to the Committee on Foreign Affairs, for a period to be 
subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration 
  of such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the committee 
                               concerned

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
To establish requirements relating to the provision of certain products 
       to the Government of Afghanistan, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Accountability of Taxpayer Funding 
for Afghanistan Fuels Act of 2013''.

SEC. 2. REQUIREMENTS RELATING TO PROVISION OF COVERED PRODUCTS TO THE 
              GOVERNMENT OF AFGHANISTAN.

    (a) In General.--No covered product may be provided directly or 
indirectly to the Government of Afghanistan unless and until the 
Secretary of Defense submits to Congress a report that contains--
            (1) a determination of the Secretary that the requirements 
        described in subsection (b) have been met; and
            (2) a detailed justification for such determination.
    (b) Requirements.--The requirements described in this subsection 
are the following:
            (1) The provision of the covered product meets an existing 
        or future need of the Government of Afghanistan.
            (2) The financial documents relating to the provision of 
        the covered product are fully accounted for and will be 
        maintained by the Department of Defense for a period of not 
        less than 10 years.
            (3) The Department of Defense has established controls to 
        monitor the use of the covered product.
    (c) Effective Date.--This section takes effect 60 days after the 
date of the enactment of this Act and applies with respect to the 
provision of a covered product on or after 60 days after such date of 
enactment.

SEC. 3. PROHIBITION ON FINANCING ASSISTANCE FOR PURPOSES OF PROCURING 
              ANY COVERED PRODUCT FOR USE BY THE GOVERNMENT OF 
              AFGHANISTAN.

    (a) In General.--No funds available to the Department of Defense 
may be provided directly or indirectly to the Government of Afghanistan 
for purposes of procuring any covered product unless and until the 
Secretary of Defense submits to Congress a report that contains--
            (1) a determination of the Secretary that the requirements 
        described in subsection (b) have been met; and
            (2) a detailed justification for such determination.
    (b) Requirements.--The requirements described in this subsection 
are the following:
            (1) The Government of Afghanistan is capable of providing 
        reliable accounting and reporting to the Department of Defense 
        with respect to the purchase, delivery, and consumption of a 
        covered product.
            (2) The Special Inspector General for Afghanistan 
        Reconstruction or beginning on the date described in subsection 
        (c) the Inspector General of the Department of Defense has 
        certified to the Secretary of Defense that the requirements 
        described in paragraph (1) have been met.
    (c) Date Described.--The date described in this subsection is the 
date of termination of the Office of the Special Inspector General for 
Afghanistan Reconstruction as required under section 1229 of the 
National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2008 (Public Law 
110-181; 122 Stat. 378).
    (d) Effective Date.--This section takes effect on the date of the 
enactment of this Act and applies with respect to funds available to 
the Department of Defense that are unobligated or unexpended as of such 
date of enactment.

SEC. 4. DEFINITIONS.

    In this Act:
            (1) Covered product.--The term ``covered product'' means 
        petroleum, oil, or a lubricant (including diesel fuel, 
        gasoline, jet or aviation fuel, kerosene, or other fuels) or 
        firewood that is to be used for purposes of equipping, 
        training, or sustaining the Afghan National Security Forces.
            (2) Government of afghanistan.--The term ``Government of 
        Afghanistan'' includes any agency of instrumentality of 
        Afghanistan.
                                 <all>
