
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H. Res. 770 Reported in House (RH)]

                                                 House Calendar No. 148
113th CONGRESS
  2d Session
H. RES. 770

                          [Report No. 113-646]

 Providing for consideration of the Senate amendment to the bill (H.R. 
    3979) to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to ensure that 
 emergency services volunteers are not taken into account as employees 
 under the shared responsibility requirements contained in the Patient 
Protection and Affordable Care Act; providing for consideration of the 
  bill (H.R. 5759) to establish a rule of construction clarifying the 
    limitations on executive authority to provide certain forms of 
 immigration relief; and providing for consideration of the bill (H.R. 
    5781) to provide short-term water supplies to drought-stricken 
                              California.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                            December 3, 2014

    Mr. Nugent, from the Committee on Rules, reported the following 
resolution; which was referred to the House Calendar and ordered to be 
                                printed

_______________________________________________________________________

                               RESOLUTION


 
 Providing for consideration of the Senate amendment to the bill (H.R. 
    3979) to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to ensure that 
 emergency services volunteers are not taken into account as employees 
 under the shared responsibility requirements contained in the Patient 
Protection and Affordable Care Act; providing for consideration of the 
  bill (H.R. 5759) to establish a rule of construction clarifying the 
    limitations on executive authority to provide certain forms of 
 immigration relief; and providing for consideration of the bill (H.R. 
    5781) to provide short-term water supplies to drought-stricken 
                              California.

    Resolved, That upon adoption of this resolution it shall be in 
order to take from the Speaker's table the bill (H.R. 3979) to amend 
the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to ensure that emergency services 
volunteers are not taken into account as employees under the shared 
responsibility requirements contained in the Patient Protection and 
Affordable Care Act, with the Senate amendment thereto, and to consider 
in the House, without intervention of any point of order, a motion 
offered by the chair of the Committee on Armed Services or his designee 
that the House concur in the Senate amendment with an amendment 
consisting of the text of Rules Committee Print 113-58 modified by the 
amendments printed in part A of the report of the Committee on Rules 
accompanying this resolution. The Senate amendment and the motion shall 
be considered as read. The motion shall be debatable for one hour 
equally divided and controlled by the chair and ranking minority member 
of the Committee on Armed Services. The previous question shall be 
considered as ordered on the motion to its adoption without intervening 
motion.
    Sec. 2.  Upon adoption of this resolution it shall be in order to 
consider in the House the bill (H.R. 5759) to establish a rule of 
construction clarifying the limitations on executive authority to 
provide certain forms of immigration relief. All points of order 
against consideration of the bill are waived. The amendment in the 
nature of a substitute printed in part B of the report of the Committee 
on Rules accompanying this resolution shall be considered as adopted. 
The bill, as amended, shall be considered as read. All points of order 
against provisions in the bill, as amended, are waived. The previous 
question shall be considered as ordered on the bill, as amended, and on 
any further amendment thereto, to final passage without intervening 
motion except: (1) one hour of debate equally divided and controlled by 
the chair and ranking minority member of the Committee on the 
Judiciary; and (2) one motion to recommit with or without instructions.
    Sec. 3.  Upon adoption of this resolution it shall be in order to 
consider in the House the bill (H.R. 5781) to provide short-term water 
supplies to drought-stricken California. All points of order against 
consideration of the bill are waived. The amendment printed in part C 
of the report of the Committee on Rules accompanying this resolution 
shall be considered as adopted. The bill, as amended, shall be 
considered as read. All points of order against provisions in the bill, 
as amended, are waived. The previous question shall be considered as 
ordered on the bill, as amended, and on any further amendment thereto, 
to final passage without intervening motion except: (1) one hour of 
debate equally divided and controlled by the chair and ranking minority 
member of the Committee on Natural Resources; and (2) one motion to 
recommit with or without instructions.
    Sec. 4.  The chair of the Committee on Armed Services may insert in 
the Congressional Record at any time during the remainder of the second 
session of the 113th Congress such material as he may deem explanatory 
of defense authorization measures for the fiscal year 2015.
                                                 House Calendar No. 148

113th CONGRESS

  2d Session

                              H. RES. 770

                          [Report No. 113-646]

_______________________________________________________________________

                               RESOLUTION

 Providing for consideration of the Senate amendment to the bill (H.R. 
    3979) to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to ensure that 
 emergency services volunteers are not taken into account as employees 
 under the shared responsibility requirements contained in the Patient 
Protection and Affordable Care Act; providing for consideration of the 
  bill (H.R. 5759) to establish a rule of construction clarifying the 
    limitations on executive authority to provide certain forms of 
 immigration relief; and providing for consideration of the bill (H.R. 
    5781) to provide short-term water supplies to drought-stricken 
                              California.

_______________________________________________________________________

                            December 3, 2014

        Referred to the House Calendar and ordered to be printed
