
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 52 Introduced in House (IH)]

113th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                 H. R. 52

To amend title 5, United States Code, to provide for the termination of 
  further retirement coverage of Members of Congress, except for the 
    right to participate in the Thrift Savings Plan, and for other 
                               purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                            January 3, 2013

 Mr. Fitzpatrick introduced the following bill; which was referred to 
the Committee on House Administration, and in addition to the Committee 
  on Oversight and Government Reform, for a period to be subsequently 
   determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of such 
 provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
To amend title 5, United States Code, to provide for the termination of 
  further retirement coverage of Members of Congress, except for the 
    right to participate in the Thrift Savings Plan, and for other 
                               purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. AMENDMENTS RELATING TO THE CIVIL SERVICE RETIREMENT SYSTEM.

    (a) In General.--Subchapter III of chapter 83 of title 5, United 
States Code, is amended by inserting after section 8335 the following:
``Sec. 8335a. Termination of further retirement coverage of Members of 
              Congress
    ``(a) In General.--Notwithstanding any other provision of this 
subchapter, effective as of the first day of the first Congress 
beginning after the date of the enactment of this section--
            ``(1) a Member shall not be subject to this subchapter for 
        any further period of time; and
            ``(2) no further Government contributions or deductions 
        from basic pay may be made with respect to such Member for 
        deposit in the Treasury of the United States to the credit of 
        the Fund.
    ``(b) Prior Rights Not Affected.--Nothing in subsection (a) shall 
be considered to nullify, modify, or otherwise affect any right, 
entitlement, or benefit under this subchapter with respect to any 
Member covering any period prior to the first day referred to in 
subsection (a).
    ``(c) Right to Participate in Thrift Savings Plan Not Affected.--
Nothing in subsection (a) shall affect the eligibility of a Member to 
participate in the Thrift Savings Plan in accordance with otherwise 
applicable provisions of law.
    ``(d) Regulations.--Any regulations necessary to carry out this 
section may--
            ``(1) be prescribed by the Director of the Office of 
        Personnel Management, except with respect to matters under 
        paragraph (2); and
            ``(2) with respect to matters relating to the Thrift 
        Savings Plan, be prescribed by the Executive Director (as 
        defined by section 8401(13)).''.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections of chapter 83 of 
title 5, United States Code, is amended by inserting after the item 
relating to section 8335 the following:

``8335a. Termination of further retirement coverage of Members of 
                            Congress.''.

SEC. 2. AMENDMENTS RELATING TO THE FEDERAL EMPLOYEES' RETIREMENT 
              SYSTEM.

    (a) In General.--Subchapter II of chapter 84 of title 5, United 
States Code, is amended by inserting after section 8425 the following:
``Sec. 8425a. Termination of further retirement coverage of Members of 
              Congress
    ``(a) In General.--Notwithstanding any other provision of this 
chapter, effective as of the first day of the first Congress beginning 
after the date of the enactment of this section--
            ``(1) in the case of an individual who first becomes a 
        Member before such first day--
                    ``(A) such Member shall not be subject to this 
                chapter for any further period of time after such first 
                day or, if later, the date on which such Member 
                completes at least 5 years of Member service; and
                    ``(B) no further Government contributions or 
                deductions from basic pay may be made with respect to 
                such Member, for deposit in the Treasury of the United 
                States to the credit of the Fund, after such Member 
                ceases to be subject to this chapter; and
            ``(2) in the case of an individual who first becomes a 
        Member on or after such first day--
                    ``(A) such Member shall not be subject to this 
                chapter; and
                    ``(B) no Government contributions or deductions 
                from basic pay may be made with respect to such Member 
                for deposit in the Treasury of the United States to the 
                credit of the Civil Service Retirement and Disability 
                Fund.
    ``(b) Prior Rights Not Affected.--Nothing in subsection (a) shall 
be considered to nullify, modify, or otherwise affect any right, 
entitlement, or benefit under this chapter with respect to any Member 
covering any period prior to the first day referred to in subsection 
(a).
    ``(c) Right to Participate in Thrift Savings Plan Not Affected.--
Nothing in subsection (a) shall affect the eligibility of a Member to 
participate in the Thrift Savings Plan in accordance with otherwise 
applicable provisions of law.
    ``(d) Regulations.--Any regulations necessary to carry out this 
section may--
            ``(1) be prescribed by the Director of the Office of 
        Personnel Management, except with respect to matters under 
        paragraph (2); and
            ``(2) with respect to matters relating to the Thrift 
        Savings Plan, be prescribed by the Executive Director (as 
        defined by section 8401(13)).''.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections of chapter 84 of 
title 5, United States Code, is amended by inserting after the item 
relating to section 8425 the following:

``8425a. Termination of further retirement coverage of Members of 
                            Congress.''.
                                 <all>
