
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 6 Received in Senate (RDS)]

113th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                 H. R. 6


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                             June 26, 2014

                                Received

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 AN ACT


 
  To provide for expedited approval of exportation of natural gas to 
      World Trade Organization countries, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Domestic Prosperity and Global 
Freedom Act''.

SEC. 2. ACTION ON APPLICATIONS.

    (a) Decision Deadline.--For proposals that must also obtain 
authorization from the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission or the 
United States Maritime Administration to site, construct, expand, or 
operate LNG export facilities, the Department of Energy shall issue a 
final decision on any application for the authorization to export 
natural gas under section 3 of the Natural Gas Act (15 U.S.C. 717b) not 
later than 30 days after the later of--
            (1) the conclusion of the review to site, construct, 
        expand, or operate the LNG facilities required by the National 
        Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (42 U.S. C. 4321 et seq.); or
            (2) the date of enactment of this Act.
    (b) Conclusion of Review.--For purposes of subsection (a), review 
required by the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 shall be 
considered concluded--
            (1) for a project requiring an Environmental Impact 
        Statement, 30 days after publication of a Final Environmental 
        Impact Statement;
            (2) for a project for which an Environmental Assessment has 
        been prepared, 30 days after publication by the Department of 
        Energy of a Finding of No Significant Impact; and
            (3) upon a determination by the lead agency that an 
        application is eligible for a categorical exclusion pursuant 
        National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 implementing 
        regulations.
    (c) Judicial Action.--(1) The United States Court of Appeals for 
the circuit in which the export facility will be located pursuant to an 
application described in subsection (a) shall have original and 
exclusive jurisdiction over any civil action for the review of--
            (A) an order issued by the Department of Energy with 
        respect to such application; or
            (B) the Department of Energy's failure to issue a final 
        decision on such application.
    (2) If the Court in a civil action described in paragraph (1) finds 
that the Department of Energy has failed to issue a final decision on 
the application as required under subsection (a), the Court shall order 
the Department of Energy to issue such final decision not later than 30 
days after the Court's order.
    (3) The Court shall set any civil action brought under this 
subsection for expedited consideration and shall set the matter on the 
docket as soon as practical after the filing date of the initial 
pleading.

SEC. 3. PUBLIC DISCLOSURE OF EXPORT DESTINATIONS.

    Section 3 of the Natural Gas Act (15 U.S.C. 717b) is amended by 
adding at the end the following:
    ``(g) Public Disclosure of LNG Export Destinations.--As a condition 
for approval of any authorization to export LNG, the Secretary of 
Energy shall require the applicant to publicly disclose the specific 
destination or destinations of any such authorized LNG exports.''.

            Passed the House of Representatives June 25, 2014.

            Attest:

                                                 KAREN L. HAAS,

                                                                 Clerk.
