
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 4601 Introduced in House (IH)]

113th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                H. R. 4601

To provide additional funding for the Highway Trust Fund, and for other 
                               purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                              May 7, 2014

  Ms. Kuster introduced the following bill; which was referred to the 
 Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, and in addition to the 
   Committees on Ways and Means and Agriculture, for a period to be 
subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration 
  of such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the committee 
                               concerned

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
To provide additional funding for the Highway Trust Fund, and for other 
                               purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE; TABLE OF CONTENTS.

    (a) Short Title.--This Act may be cited as the ``Deficit Reduction 
for Infrastructure, Value, and Efficiency Now Act of 2014'' or the 
``DRIVE Now Act of 2014''.
    (b) Table of Contents.--The table of contents for this Act is as 
follows:

Sec. 1. Short title; table of contents.
                      TITLE I--HIGHWAY TRUST FUND

Sec. 101. Funding of Highway Trust Fund.
                   TITLE II--COST REDUCTION MEASURES

                 Subtitle A--Data Center Consolidation

Sec. 201. Purpose.
Sec. 202. Definitions.
Sec. 203. Federal Data Center Optimization Initiative.
Sec. 204. Performance requirements related to data center 
                            consolidation.
Sec. 205. Cost savings related to data center optimization.
Sec. 206. Reporting requirements to Congress and the Federal Chief 
                            Information Officer.
Sec. 207. Reduction and consolidation of data centers.
      Subtitle B--Repeal of Duplicative Catfish Inspection Program

Sec. 211. Repeal of duplicative catfish inspection program.
                Subtitle C--Closing Empty Bank Accounts

Sec. 221. Documenting and closing long-empty Federal bank accounts.

                      TITLE I--HIGHWAY TRUST FUND

SEC. 101. FUNDING OF HIGHWAY TRUST FUND.

    Section 9503(f) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 is amended--
            (1) by redesignating paragraph (5) as paragraph (6); and
            (2) by inserting after paragraph (4) the following:
            ``(5) Additional sums.--Out of money in the Treasury not 
        otherwise appropriated, there is hereby appropriated 
        $5,000,000,000 to the Highway Account (as defined in subsection 
        (e)(5)(B)) in the Highway Trust Fund.''.

                   TITLE II--COST REDUCTION MEASURES

                 Subtitle A--Data Center Consolidation

SEC. 201. PURPOSE.

    The purpose of this subtitle is to optimize Federal data center 
usage and efficiency.

SEC. 202. DEFINITIONS.

    In this subtitle:
            (1) Federal data center optimization initiative.--The term 
        ``Federal Data Center Optimization Initiative'' or the 
        ``Initiative'' means the initiative developed and implemented 
        by the Director of the Office of Management and Budget, through 
        the Federal Chief Information Officer, as required under 
        section 203.
            (2) Covered agency.--The term ``covered agency'' means any 
        agency included in the Federal Data Center Optimization 
        Initiative.
            (3) Federal chief information officer.--The term ``Federal 
        Chief Information Officer'' means the Administrator of the 
        Office of Electronic Government established under section 3602 
        of title 44, United States Code.
            (4) Data center.--The term ``data center'' means a closet, 
        room, floor, or building for the storage, management, and 
        dissemination of data and information, as defined by the 
        Federal Chief Information Officer under guidance issued 
        pursuant to this section.
            (5) Federal data center.--The term ``Federal data center'' 
        means any data center of a covered agency used or operated by a 
        covered agency, by a contractor of a covered agency, or by 
        another organization on behalf of a covered agency.
            (6) Server utilization.--The term ``server utilization'' 
        refers to the activity level of a server relative to its 
        maximum activity level, expressed as a percentage.
            (7) Power usage effectiveness.--The term ``power usage 
        effectiveness'' means the ratio obtained by dividing the total 
        amount of electricity and other power consumed in running a 
        data center by the power consumed by the information and 
        communications technology in the data center.

SEC. 203. FEDERAL DATA CENTER OPTIMIZATION INITIATIVE.

    (a) Requirement for Initiative.--The Federal Chief Information 
Officer, in consultation with the chief information officers of covered 
agencies, shall develop and implement an initiative, to be known as the 
Federal Data Center Optimization Initiative, to optimize the usage and 
efficiency of Federal data centers by meeting the requirements of this 
Act and taking additional measures, as appropriate.
    (b) Requirement for Plan.--Within 6 months after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Federal Chief Information Officer, in 
consultation with the chief information officers of covered agencies, 
shall develop and submit to Congress a plan for implementation of the 
Initiative required by subsection (a) by each covered agency. In 
developing the plan, the Federal Chief Information Officer shall take 
into account the findings and recommendations of the Comptroller 
General review required by section 205(e).
    (c) Matters Covered.--The plan shall include--
            (1) descriptions of how covered agencies will use 
        reductions in floor space, energy use, infrastructure, 
        equipment, applications, personnel, increases in 
        multiorganizational use, and other appropriate methods to meet 
        the requirements of the initiative; and
            (2) appropriate consideration of shifting federally owned 
        data centers to commercially owned data centers.

SEC. 204. PERFORMANCE REQUIREMENTS RELATED TO DATA CENTER 
              CONSOLIDATION.

    (a) Server Utilization.--Each covered agency may use the following 
methods to achieve the maximum server utilization possible as 
determined by the Federal Chief Information Officer:
            (1) The closing of existing data centers that lack adequate 
        server utilization, as determined by the Federal Chief 
        Information Officer. If the agency fails to close such data 
        centers, the agency shall provide a detailed explanation as to 
        why this data center should remain in use as part of the 
        submitted plan. The Federal Chief Information Officer shall 
        include an assessment of the agency explanation in the annual 
        report to Congress.
            (2) The consolidation of services within existing data 
        centers to increase server utilization rates.
            (3) Any other method that the Federal Chief Information 
        Officer, in consultation with the chief information officers of 
        covered agencies, determines necessary to optimize server 
        utilization.
    (b) Power Usage Effectiveness.--Each covered agency may use the 
following methods to achieve the maximum energy efficiency possible as 
determined by the Federal Chief Information Officer:
            (1) The use of the measurement of power usage effectiveness 
        to calculate data center energy efficiency.
            (2) The use of power meters in data centers to frequently 
        measure power consumption over time.
            (3) The establishment of power usage effectiveness goals 
        for each data center.
            (4) The adoption of best practices for managing--
                    (A) temperature and airflow in data centers; and
                    (B) power supply efficiency.
            (5) The implementation of any other method that the Federal 
        Chief Information Officer, in consultation with the Chief 
        Information Officers of covered agencies, determines necessary 
        to optimize data center energy efficiency.

SEC. 205. COST SAVINGS RELATED TO DATA CENTER OPTIMIZATION.

    (a) Requirement To Track Costs.--
            (1) In general.--Each covered agency shall track costs 
        resulting from implementation of the Federal Data Center 
        Optimization Initiative within the agency and submit a report 
        on those costs annually to the Federal Chief Information 
        Officer. Covered agencies shall determine the net costs from 
        data consolidation on an annual basis.
            (2) Factors.--In calculating net costs each year under 
        paragraph (1), a covered agency shall use the following 
        factors:
                    (A) Energy costs.
                    (B) Personnel costs.
                    (C) Real estate costs.
                    (D) Capital expense costs.
                    (E) Operating system, database, and other software 
                license expense costs.
                    (F) Other appropriate costs, as determined by the 
                agency in consultation with the Federal Chief 
                Information Officer.
    (b) Requirement To Track Savings.--
            (1) In general.--Each covered agency shall track savings 
        resulting from implementation of the Federal Data Center 
        Optimization Initiative within the agency and submit a report 
        on those savings annually to the Federal Chief Information 
        Officer. Covered agencies shall determine the net savings from 
        data consolidation on an annual basis.
            (2) Factors.--In calculating net savings each year under 
        paragraph (1), a covered agency shall use the following 
        factors:
                    (A) Energy savings.
                    (B) Personnel savings.
                    (C) Real estate savings.
                    (D) Capital expense savings.
                    (E) Operating system, database, and other software 
                license expense savings.
                    (F) Other appropriate savings, as determined by the 
                agency in consultation with the Federal Chief 
                Information Officer.
    (c) Requirement To Use Cost-Effective Measures.--Covered agencies 
shall use the most cost-effective measures to implement the Federal 
Data Center Optimization Initiative.
    (d) Use of Savings.--Any savings resulting from implementation of 
the Federal Data Center Optimization Initiative within a covered agency 
shall be used for the following purposes:
            (1) To offset the costs of implementing the Initiative 
        within the agency.
            (2) To further enhance information technology capabilities 
        and services within the agency.
    (e) Government Accountability Office Review.--Not later than 3 
months after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Comptroller 
General of the United States shall examine methods for calculating 
savings from the Federal Data Center Optimization Initiative and using 
them for the purposes identified in subsection (d), including 
establishment and use of a special revolving fund that supports data 
centers and server optimization, and shall submit to the Federal Chief 
Information Officer and Congress a report on the Comptroller General's 
findings and recommendations.

SEC. 206. REPORTING REQUIREMENTS TO CONGRESS AND THE FEDERAL CHIEF 
              INFORMATION OFFICER.

    (a) Agency Requirement To Report to CIO.--Each year, each covered 
agency shall submit to the Federal Chief Information Officer a report 
on the implementation of the Federal Data Center Optimization 
Initiative, including savings resulting from such implementation. The 
report shall include an update of the agency's plan for implementing 
the Initiative.
    (b) Federal Chief Information Officer Requirement To Report to 
Congress.--Each year, the Federal Chief Information Officer shall 
submit to the relevant congressional committees a report that assesses 
agency progress in carrying out the Federal Data Center Optimization 
Initiative and updates the plan under section 113. The report may be 
included as part of the annual report required under section 3606 of 
title 44, United States Code.

SEC. 207. REDUCTION AND CONSOLIDATION OF DATA CENTERS.

    (a) OMB Recommendation.--Not later than 6 months after the date of 
the enactment of this Act, the Director of the Office of Management and 
Budget, in consultation with the Administrator of General Services and 
the heads of other executive agencies, shall issue recommendations for 
reducing or consolidating the number of Federal data centers in 
existence as of the date of the enactment of this Act--
            (1) by at least 40 percent not later than September 30, 
        2018; and
            (2) by at least 80 percent not later than September 30, 
        2023.
    (b) Reduction of Data Centers.--Not later than 6 months after the 
issuance of recommendations by the Director under subsection (a), the 
head of each executive agency shall implement the recommendations by 
reducing the number of Federal data centers in accordance with such 
recommendations.

      Subtitle B--Repeal of Duplicative Catfish Inspection Program

SECTION 211. REPEAL OF DUPLICATIVE CATFISH INSPECTION PROGRAM.

    (a) In General.--Effective on the date of the enactment of the 
Food, Conservation, and Energy Act of 2008 (7 U.S.C. 8701 et seq.), 
section 11016 of such Act (Public Law 110-246; 122 Stat. 2130) and the 
amendments made by such section are repealed.
    (b) Application.--The Agricultural Marketing Act of 1946 (7 U.S.C. 
1621 et seq.) and the Federal Meat Inspection Act (21 U.S.C. 601 et 
seq.) shall be applied and administered as if section 11016 (Public Law 
110-246; 122 Stat. 2130) of the Food, Conservation, and Energy Act of 
2008 (7 U.S.C. 8701 et seq.) and the amendments made by such section 
had not been enacted.

                Subtitle C--Closing Empty Bank Accounts

SEC. 221. DOCUMENTING AND CLOSING LONG-EMPTY FEDERAL BANK ACCOUNTS.

    (a) Inspectors General Report.--Not later than 6 months after the 
date of the enactment of this Act, the Council of the Inspectors 
General on Integrity and Efficiency shall submit to Congress a report 
that--
            (1) lists each bank account held by the United States 
        Government that has a balance of zero dollars for 180 days or 
        more; and
            (2) recommends which of these accounts should be 
        immediately closed.
    (b) Closure of Accounts Required.--Not later than 7 days after the 
report is submitted under subsection (a), the head of each agency with 
a bank account recommended for closure in the report described in 
subsection (a) shall close each such account that is managed by the 
agency.
    (c) Agency Defined.--In this section, the term ``agency'' has the 
meaning given that term in section 551 of title 5, United States Code.
                                 <all>
