
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H. Res. 458 Reported in House (RH)]

                                                  House Calendar No. 80
113th CONGRESS
  2d Session
H. RES. 458

                          [Report No. 113-327]

Providing for consideration of the Senate amendments to the bill (H.R. 
   3547) to extend the application of certain space launch liability 
 provisions through 2014; providing for proceedings during the period 
    from January 17, 2014, through January 24, 2014; and for other 
                               purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                            January 14, 2014

     Mr. Cole, from the Committee on Rules, reported the following 
resolution; which was referred to the House Calendar and ordered to be 
                                printed

_______________________________________________________________________

                               RESOLUTION


 
Providing for consideration of the Senate amendments to the bill (H.R. 
   3547) to extend the application of certain space launch liability 
 provisions through 2014; providing for proceedings during the period 
    from January 17, 2014, through January 24, 2014; and for other 
                               purposes.

    Resolved, That upon adoption of this resolution it shall be in 
order to take from the Speaker's table the bill (H.R. 3547) to extend 
the application of certain space launch liability provisions through 
2014, with the Senate amendments thereto, and to consider in the House, 
without intervention of any point of order, a single motion offered by 
the chair of the Committee on Appropriations or his designee that the 
House (1) concur in the Senate amendment to the title and (2) concur in 
the Senate amendment to the text with an amendment inserting the text 
of Rules Committee Print 113-32 in lieu of the matter proposed to be 
inserted by the Senate. The Senate amendments and the motion shall be 
considered as read. The motion shall be debatable for one hour equally 
divided and controlled by the chair and ranking minority member of the 
Committee on Appropriations. The previous question shall be considered 
as ordered on the motion to adoption without intervening motion or 
demand for division of the question.
    Sec. 2.  Upon adoption of the motion specified in the first section 
of this resolution, House Concurrent Resolution 74 shall be considered 
as adopted.
    Sec. 3.  The chair of the Committee on Appropriations may insert in 
the Congressional Record not later than January 16, 2014, such material 
as he may deem explanatory of the Senate amendments and the motion 
specified in the first section of this resolution.
    Sec. 4.  On any legislative day during the period from January 17, 
2014, through January 24, 2014--
     (a) the Journal of the proceedings of the previous day shall be 
considered as approved; and
    (b) the Chair may at any time declare the House adjourned to meet 
at a date and time, within the limits of clause 4, section 5, article I 
of the Constitution, to be announced by the Chair in declaring the 
adjournment.
    Sec. 5.  The Speaker may appoint Members to perform the duties of 
the Chair for the duration of the period addressed by section 4 of this 
resolution as though under clause 8(a) of rule I.
                                                  House Calendar No. 80

113th CONGRESS

  2d Session

                              H. RES. 458

                          [Report No. 113-327]

_______________________________________________________________________

                               RESOLUTION

Providing for consideration of the Senate amendments to the bill (H.R. 
   3547) to extend the application of certain space launch liability 
 provisions through 2014; providing for proceedings during the period 
    from January 17, 2014, through January 24, 2014; and for other 
                               purposes.

_______________________________________________________________________

                            January 14, 2014

        Referred to the House Calendar and ordered to be printed
