
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H. Res. 419 Engrossed in House (EH)]

H. Res. 419

                In the House of Representatives, U. S.,

                                                     November 19, 2013.
    Resolved, That at any time after adoption of this resolution the Speaker 
may, pursuant to clause 2(b) of rule XVIII, declare the House resolved into the 
Committee of the Whole House on the state of the Union for consideration of the 
bill (H.R. 1965) to streamline and ensure onshore energy permitting, provide for 
onshore leasing certainty, and give certainty to oil shale development for 
American energy security, economic development, and job creation, and for other 
purposes. The first reading of the bill shall be dispensed with. All points of 
order against consideration of the bill are waived. General debate shall be 
confined to the bill and amendments specified in this section and shall not 
exceed one hour equally divided and controlled by the chair and ranking minority 
member of the Committee on Natural Resources. After general debate the bill 
shall be considered for amendment under the five-minute rule. In lieu of the 
amendment in the nature of a substitute recommended by the Committee on Natural 
Resources now printed in the bill, an amendment in the nature of a substitute 
consisting of the text of Rules Committee Print 113-26 shall be considered as 
adopted in the House and in the Committee of the Whole. The bill, as amended, 
shall be considered as the original bill for the purpose of further amendment 
under the five-minute rule and shall be considered as read. All points of order 
against provisions in the bill, as amended, are waived. No further amendment to 
the bill, as amended, shall be in order except those printed in part A of the 
report of the Committee on Rules accompanying this resolution. Each such further 
amendment may be offered only in the order printed in the report, may be offered 
only by a Member designated in the report, shall be considered as read, shall be 
debatable for the time specified in the report equally divided and controlled by 
the proponent and an opponent, shall not be subject to amendment, and shall not 
be subject to a demand for division of the question in the House or in the 
Committee of the Whole. All points of order against such further amendments are 
waived. At the conclusion of consideration of the bill for amendment the 
Committee shall rise and report the bill, as amended, to the House with such 
further amendments as may have been adopted. The previous question shall be 
considered as ordered on the bill, as amended, and any further amendment thereto 
to final passage without intervening motion except one motion to recommit with 
or without instructions.
    Sec. 2.  At any time after adoption of this resolution the Speaker may, 
pursuant to clause 2(b) of rule XVIII, declare the House resolved into the 
Committee of the Whole House on the state of the Union for consideration of the 
bill (H.R. 2728) to recognize States' authority to regulate oil and gas 
operations and promote American energy security, development, and job creation. 
The first reading of the bill shall be dispensed with. All points of order 
against consideration of the bill are waived. General debate shall be confined 
to the bill and amendments specified in this section and shall not exceed one 
hour, with 40 minutes equally divided and controlled by the chair and ranking 
minority member of the Committee on Natural Resources and 20 minutes equally 
divided and controlled by the chair and ranking minority member of the Committee 
on Science, Space, and Technology. After general debate the bill shall be 
considered for amendment under the five-minute rule. In lieu of the amendment in 
the nature of a substitute recommended by the Committee on Natural Resources now 
printed in the bill, an amendment in the nature of a substitute consisting of 
the text of Rules Committee Print 113-27 shall be considered as adopted in the 
House and in the Committee of the Whole. The bill, as amended, shall be 
considered as the original bill for the purpose of further amendment under the 
five-minute rule and shall be considered as read. All points of order against 
provisions in the bill, as amended, are waived. No further amendment to the 
bill, as amended, shall be in order except those printed in part B of the report 
of the Committee on Rules accompanying this resolution. Each such further 
amendment may be offered only in the order printed in the report, may be offered 
only by a Member designated in the report, shall be considered as read, shall be 
debatable for the time specified in the report equally divided and controlled by 
the proponent and an opponent, shall not be subject to amendment, and shall not 
be subject to a demand for division of the question in the House or in the 
Committee of the Whole. All points of order against such further amendments are 
waived. At the conclusion of consideration of the bill for amendment the 
Committee shall rise and report the bill, as amended, to the House with such 
further amendments as may have been adopted. The previous question shall be 
considered as ordered on the bill, as amended, and any further amendment thereto 
to final passage without intervening motion except one motion to recommit with 
or without instructions.
            Attest:

                                                                          Clerk.
