
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[S. 2238 Introduced in Senate (IS)]

113th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                S. 2238

   To ensure that the United States Government in no way recognizes 
                     Russia's annexation of Crimea.


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                             April 10, 2014

     Mr. Coats (for himself, Mr. Cornyn, Mr. Graham, Mr. Kirk, Mr. 
McConnell, Mr. Blunt, Mr. Wicker, Mr. Hatch, Mr. Risch, Mr. Rubio, Mr. 
 Enzi, and Mr. Portman) introduced the following bill; which was read 
        twice and referred to the Committee on Foreign Relations

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
   To ensure that the United States Government in no way recognizes 
                     Russia's annexation of Crimea.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Crimea Annexation Non-recognition 
Act of 2014''.

SEC. 2. UNITED STATES POLICY AGAINST RECOGNITION OF ANNEXATION.

    (a) Statement of Policy.--It is the policy of the United States 
Government not to recognize the de jure or de facto sovereignty of the 
Russian Federation over Crimea, its airspace, or its territorial 
waters.
    (b) Prohibition.--No Federal department or agency may take any 
action that recognizes or implies recognition of sovereignty of the 
Russian Federation over Crimea, its airspace, or its territorial 
waters.

SEC. 3. PROHIBITION AGAINST DOCUMENTS PORTRAYING CRIMEA AS PART OF 
              RUSSIAN FEDERATION.

    The Government Printing Office may not print any map, document, 
record, or other paper of the United States portraying or otherwise 
indicating Crimea as part of the territory of the Russian Federation.

SEC. 4. PROHIBITION ON FACILITATING CERTAIN INVESTMENTS IN CRIMEA.

    No Federal department or agency may take any action to facilitate, 
finance, or guarantee any investment in Crimea that involves any 
official or entity of the Government of the Russian Federation or any 
business, bank, or other financial entity whose headquarters or 
principal place of business is located in the Russian Federation.

SEC. 5. OPPOSITION TO INTERNATIONAL FINANCIAL INSTITUTION LOANS WITH 
              RUSSIAN INVOLVEMENT.

    The Secretary of the Treasury shall direct the United States 
representatives to the International Monetary Fund, the World Bank 
Group, and each other international financial institution described in 
section 1701(c)(2) of the International Financial Institutions Act (22 
U.S.C. 262r) to oppose any loan, loan guarantee, or transfer of funds 
to Crimea related to activity involving--
            (1) any official or entity of the Government of the Russian 
        Federation; or
            (2) any financial institution or other entity whose 
        headquarters or principal place of business is located in the 
        Russian Federation.

SEC. 6. DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE AFFIRMATION OF NON-RECOGNITION OF 
              ANNEXATION.

    In any matter before any United States court, upon request of the 
court or any party to the matter, the Department of Justice shall 
affirm the United States policy of not recognizing the de jure or de 
facto sovereignty of the Russian Federation over Crimea, its airspace, 
or its territorial waters.

SEC. 7. DENIAL OF ENTRY TO UNITED STATES PORTS OF VESSELS FROM CRIMEA 
              WITH RUSSIAN CARGO.

    A vessel that is documented under the laws of a foreign country may 
not enter a port of the United States if--
            (1) the vessel is arriving from a port in Crimea; and
            (2) the vessel is transporting goods for which export 
        documents are issued or approved by the customs authorities of 
        the Russian Federation.

SEC. 8. NON-RECOGNITION OF RUSSIAN SOVEREIGNTY OVER CRIMEAN TERRITORY, 
              AIRSPACE, OR TERRITORIAL WATERS.

    (a) United States Armed Forces.--The Secretary of Defense may not 
take any action, including any movement of aircraft or vessels, that 
implies recognition of the sovereignty of the Russian Federation over 
Crimea, its airspace, or its territorial waters.
    (b) United States Flagged Vessels.--No vessel that is issued a 
certificate of documentation under chapter 121 of title 46, United 
States Code, may take any action that implies recognition of the 
sovereignty of the Russian Federation over Crimea or its territorial 
waters.
    (c) United States Aircraft.--No aircraft operated by an air carrier 
that holds an air carrier certificate issued under chapter 411 of title 
49, United States Code, may take any action that implies recognition of 
the sovereignty of the Russian Federation over Crimea or its airspace.

SEC. 9. PROHIBITION ON CERTAIN ASSISTANCE TO COUNTRIES THAT RECOGNIZE 
              RUSSIAN SOVEREIGNTY OVER CRIMEA.

    No amounts may be obligated or expended to provide Economic Support 
Fund assistance, development assistance, or security assistance to the 
government of any country that the Secretary of State determines has, 
after the date of the enactment of this Act, recognized the sovereignty 
of the Russian Federation over Crimea, its airspace, or its territorial 
waters.
                                 <all>
