
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 2704 Introduced in House (IH)]

113th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                H. R. 2704

   To amend title 38, United States Code, to direct the Secretary of 
Veterans Affairs to submit to Congress a Future-Years Veterans Program 
 and a quadrennial veterans review, to establish in the Department of 
   Veterans Affairs a Chief Strategy Officer, and for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                             July 17, 2013

  Mr. Michaud (for himself and Mr. Miller of Florida) introduced the 
   following bill; which was referred to the Committee on Veterans' 
                                Affairs

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
   To amend title 38, United States Code, to direct the Secretary of 
Veterans Affairs to submit to Congress a Future-Years Veterans Program 
 and a quadrennial veterans review, to establish in the Department of 
   Veterans Affairs a Chief Strategy Officer, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Department of Veterans Affairs 
Budget Planning Reform Act of 2013''.

SEC. 2. ESTABLISHMENT OF STRATEGIC PLANS TO IMPROVE PROGRAMS AND 
              BENEFITS FOR VETERANS.

    (a) Future-Years Veterans Program.--
            (1) In general.--Chapter 1 of title 38, United States Code, 
        is amended by adding at the end the following new section:
``Sec. 119. Future-Years Veterans Program
    ``(a) Submission to Congress.--The Secretary shall submit to 
Congress each year, at or about the time that the President's budget is 
submitted to Congress pursuant to section 1105(a) of title 31, a 
Future-Years Veterans Program reflecting the estimated expenditures and 
proposed appropriations included in that budget. Any such Future-Years 
Veterans Program shall cover the fiscal year with respect to which the 
budget is submitted and at least the four succeeding fiscal years.
    ``(b) Consistency.--(1) The Secretary shall ensure that amounts 
described in subparagraph (A) of paragraph (2) for any fiscal year are 
consistent with amounts described in subparagraph (B) of such paragraph 
for that fiscal year.
    ``(2) Amounts referred to in paragraph (1) are the following:
            ``(A) The amounts specified in program and budget 
        information submitted to Congress by the Secretary in support 
        of expenditure estimates and proposed appropriations in the 
        budget submitted to Congress by the President under section 
        1105(a) of title 31 for any fiscal year, as shown in the 
        Future-Years Veterans Program submitted pursuant to subsection 
        (a).
            ``(B) The total amounts of estimated expenditures and 
        proposed appropriations necessary to support the programs, 
        projects, and activities of the Department of Veterans Affairs 
        included pursuant to paragraph (5) of section 1105(a) of title 
        31 in the budget submitted to Congress under that section for 
        any fiscal year.
    ``(c) Contents.--The Future-Years Veterans Program under subsection 
(a) shall set forth the five-year plan of the Department to address the 
commitment of the United States to veterans and the resources necessary 
to meet that commitment and shall be developed and updated, as 
appropriate, annually by the Secretary. Each Future-Years Veterans 
Program shall include an explanation of--
            ``(1) the information that was used to develop program 
        planning guidance for the Future-Years Veterans Program; and
            ``(2) how the resource allocations included in the Future-
        Years Veterans Program correlate to such five-year strategy.''.
            (2) Clerical amendment.--The table of sections at the 
        beginning of such chapter is amended by inserting after the 
        item relating to section 118 the following new item:

``119. Future-Years Veterans Program.''.
            (3) Effective date.--Section 119 of title 38, United States 
        Code, as added by paragraph (1), shall apply with respect to 
        the preparation and submission of the fiscal year 2018 budget 
        request for the Department of Veterans Affairs.
    (b) Quadrennial Veterans Review.--
            (1) In general.--Such chapter is further amended by adding 
        after section 119, as added by subsection (a)(1), the following 
        new section:
``Sec. 120. Quadrennial veterans review
    ``(a) Requirement.--(1) Not later than fiscal year 2017, and every 
fourth year thereafter, the Secretary shall conduct a review of the 
strategy for meeting the commitment of the United States to veterans 
and the resources necessary to meet that commitment (in this section 
referred to as a `quadrennial veterans review').
    ``(2) Each quadrennial veterans review shall include a 
comprehensive examination of the policies and strategies of the United 
States with respect to veterans, including recommendations regarding 
the long-term strategy and priorities for programs, services, benefits, 
and outcomes regarding veterans and guidance on the programs, assets, 
capabilities, budget, policies, and authorities of the Department.
    ``(3) The Secretary shall conduct each quadrennial veterans review 
in consultation with key officials of the Department, the heads of 
other Federal agencies, and other relevant governmental and 
nongovernmental entities, including State, local, and tribal government 
officials, members of Congress, veterans service organizations, private 
sector representatives, academics, and other policy experts.
    ``(4) The Secretary shall ensure that each quadrennial veterans 
review is coordinated with the Future-Years Veterans Program required 
under section 119 of this title.
    ``(b) Contents of Review.--In each quadrennial veterans review, the 
Secretary shall--
            ``(1) delineate a veterans strategy consistent with the 
        commitment of the United States to veterans and refine a 
        strategy for the types of, and provision of, programs, 
        services, benefits, and outcomes consistent with current 
        authorities and requirements;
            ``(2) outline and prioritize the full range of programs and 
        capabilities regarding veterans provided by the Federal 
        Government;
            ``(3) identify the budget plan required to provide 
        sufficient resources to successfully execute the full range of 
        such programs and capabilities;
            ``(4) include an assessment of the organizational alignment 
        of the Department with respect to the strategy referred to in 
        paragraph (1) and the programs and capabilities referred to in 
        paragraph (2);
            ``(5) review and assess the effectiveness of the mechanisms 
        of the Department for executing the process of turning the 
        requirements identified in the quadrennial veterans review into 
        a plan to meet such requirements, including an expenditure plan 
        for the Department; and
            ``(6) identify emerging trends, problems, opportunities, 
        and issues that could affect veterans or the Department during 
        the ten-year period following the period covered by the review.
    ``(c) Submission to Congress.--(1) The Secretary shall submit to 
the Committees on Veterans' Affairs of the Senate and the House of 
Representatives a report regarding each quadrennial veterans review. 
The Secretary shall submit the report in the year following the year in 
which the review is conducted, but not later than the date on which the 
President submits the budget for the next fiscal year to Congress under 
section 1105 of title 31, United States Code.
    ``(2) Each report submitted under paragraph (1) shall include--
            ``(A) the results of the quadrennial veterans review;
            ``(B) a description of the challenges to, and opportunities 
        for, the assumed or defined veterans-related interests of the 
        Nation that were examined for the purposes of that review;
            ``(C) the strategy for meeting the Nation's commitment to 
        veterans, including a prioritized list of the missions of the 
        Department;
            ``(D) a description of the interagency cooperation, 
        preparedness of Federal assets, infrastructure, budget plan, 
        and other elements of the programs and policies of the Nation 
        associated with the strategy referred to in subsection (b)(1) 
        that are required to execute successfully the full range of 
        programs and capabilities identified in such strategy and the 
        programs and capabilities outlined under subsection (b)(2);
            ``(E) an assessment of the organizational alignment of the 
        Department with the strategy referred to in subsection (b)(1) 
        and the programs and capabilities outlined under subsection 
        (b)(2), including the Department's organizational structure, 
        management systems, budget and accounting systems, human 
        resources systems, procurement systems, and physical and 
        technical infrastructure;
            ``(F) a discussion of the status of cooperation among 
        Federal agencies in the effort to promote national support for 
        veterans;
            ``(G) a discussion of the status of cooperation between the 
        Federal Government and State, local, and tribal governments in 
        supporting veterans and providing programs, services, benefits, 
        and outcomes to assist veterans;
            ``(H) an explanation of any underlying assumptions used in 
        conducting the review; and
            ``(I) any other matter the Secretary considers 
        appropriate.''.
            (2) Clerical amendment.--The table of sections at the 
        beginning of such chapter is amended by inserting after the 
        item relating to section 119, as added by subsection (a)(2), 
        the following new item:

``120. Quadrennial Veterans Review.''.
    (c) Policy Guidance.--
            (1) In general.--Such chapter is further amended by adding 
        after section 120, as added by subsection (b)(1), the following 
        new section:
``Sec. 121. Policy Guidance
    ``The Secretary shall provide annually to the appropriate officials 
of the Department written policy guidance for the preparation and 
review of the planning and program recommendations and budget proposals 
of the elements of the Department of such officials. Such guidance 
shall include guidance on the objectives of the Department in 
accordance with Future-Years Veterans Program under section 119 of this 
title and the quadrennial veterans review under section 120 and the 
resource levels projected to be available for the period of time for 
which such recommendations and proposals are to be effective.''.
            (2) Clerical amendment.--The table of sections at the 
        beginning of such chapter is amended by inserting after the 
        item relating to section 120, as added by subsection (b)(2), 
        the following new item:

``121. Quadrennial veterans review.''.

SEC. 3. CHIEF STRATEGY OFFICER OF THE DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS AFFAIRS.

    (a) In General.--Chapter 3 of title 38, United States Code, is 
amended by adding at the end the following new section:
``Sec. 323. Chief Strategy Officer
    ``(a) In General.--The Secretary shall designate the Assistant 
Secretary whose functions include planning, studies, and evaluations as 
the Chief Strategy Officer of the Department. The Chief Strategy 
Officer shall advise the Secretary on long-range strategy and 
implications.
    ``(b) Responsibilities.--The Chief Strategy Officer is the 
principal advisor to the Secretary and other senior officials of the 
Department, and shall provide independent analysis and advice to the 
Secretary and such officials. The Chief Strategy Officer shall carry 
out the following responsibilities:
            ``(1) Conducting cost estimation and cost analysis for the 
        programs of the Department.
            ``(2) Establishing policies for, and overseeing the 
        integration of, the planning, programming, budgeting and 
        execution process for the Department.
            ``(3) Providing analysis and advice on matters relating to 
        the planning and programming phase of the planning, 
        programming, budgeting and execution process, and the 
        preparation of materials and guidance for such process, as 
        directed by the Secretary, working in coordination with the 
        Assistant Secretary for Management.
            ``(4) Developing and executing the Future-Years Veterans 
        Program of the Department, as specified under section 119 of 
        this title.
            ``(5) Developing resource discussions relating to 
        requirements under consideration in the quadrennial veterans 
        review under section 120 of this title.
            ``(6) Formulating study guidance for analysis of 
        alternatives for programs and initiatives, including any 
        necessary acquisitions, development, or procurement 
        commensurate with such alternatives, and performance of such 
        analysis as directed by the Secretary.
            ``(7) Reviewing, analyzing, and evaluating programs for 
        executing approved strategies and policies, ensuring that 
        information on programs and expected outcomes is presented 
        accurately and completely.
            ``(8) Ensuring that the costs of programs and alternatives 
        are presented accurately and completely by assisting in 
        establishing standards, policies, and procedures for the 
        conduct of cost estimation and cost analysis throughout the 
        Department, including guidance relating to the proper selection 
        of confidence levels in cost estimates generally and for 
        specific programs of the Department.
            ``(9) Conducting studies at the request of the Secretary 
        regarding costs, policy assumptions, and strategic implications 
        of current policies and possible alternatives.
            ``(10) Communicating directly to the Secretary and the 
        Deputy Secretary of Veterans Affairs about matters for which 
        the Chief Strategy Officer is responsible without obtaining the 
        approval or concurrence of any other official within the 
        Department.''.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections at the beginning of 
such chapter is amended by inserting after the item relating to section 
322 the following new item:

``323. Chief Strategy Officer.''.

SEC. 4. STUDY ON THE FUNCTIONS AND ORGANIZATIONAL STRUCTURE OF THE 
              OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY OF VETERANS AFFAIRS AND OF THE 
              DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS AFFAIRS.

    (a) Secretary of Veterans Affairs Study.--The Secretary of Veterans 
Affairs shall conduct a study of the functions and organizational 
structure of the Office of the Secretary and of the Department of 
Veterans Affairs.
    (b) Contents of Study.--In conducting the study under subsection 
(a), the Secretary shall consider whether the allocation of functions 
and the organizational structure of the Department, as of the date of 
the enactment of this Act, constitute the most effective, efficient, 
and economical allocation and structure to assist the Secretary in 
carrying out the duties and responsibilities of the Secretary. The 
Secretary shall also consider--
            (1) whether the organization of the Office and the 
        Department is--
                    (A) optimally structured to assist the Secretary in 
                the effective exercise of control over the Department, 
                including--
                            (i) policy development and strategic 
                        planning;
                            (ii) programming, planning, and budget 
                        development and policy, program, and budget 
                        execution; and
                            (iii) contingency planning; and
                    (B) the most effective and efficient organization 
                for the initiation, development, and articulation of 
                veterans' policy and the provision of benefits and 
                services;
            (2) means of improving and strengthening the oversight and 
        accountability within the Office and Department;
            (3) factors inhibiting efficient and effective execution of 
        the functions of the Office and the Department, including 
        factors relating to--
                    (A) any duplication of functions (both within and 
                between the Office and Department);
                    (B) the availability to the Secretary of sufficient 
                and detailed information regarding the operation of the 
                Department to enable effective planning, policy 
                execution, and oversight; and
                    (C) the sufficiency of resources, including 
                personnel, to carry out current and projected 
                requirements in a more effective and efficient manner; 
                and
            (4) possible alternative allocations and realignments of 
        authorities and functions within the Office and Department to 
        improve the Department's overall operation and better provide 
        benefits and services.
    (c) Independent Contractor Study.--The Secretary shall enter into a 
contract with an appropriate entity under which the entity shall carry 
out an independent study of the same matters required to be considered 
by the Secretary under subsection (b). The Secretary shall ensure that 
the entity has full access to such information as the contractor 
requires in order to conduct the study and that the contractor 
otherwise receives full cooperation from all officials and entities of 
the Department of Veterans Affairs.
    (d) Report to Congress.--Not later than one year after the date of 
the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall 
submit to the Committees on Veterans' Affairs of the Senate and House 
of Representatives a report on the Secretary's study under subsection 
(a). The report shall include--
            (1) the findings and conclusions of the Secretary with 
        respect to each of the matters set forth in subsection (b);
            (2) any recommendations of the Secretary for organizational 
        changes in the Office of the Secretary and the overall 
        Department and a description of the means for implementing each 
        recommendation; and
            (3) a copy of the report of the independent contractor 
        under subsection (c), together with such comments on such 
        report as the Secretary considers appropriate.
                                 <all>
