
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 1905 Introduced in House (IH)]

113th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                H. R. 1905

To require the Secretary of the Treasury to mint coins in commemoration 
        of the centennial of the establishment of Mother's Day.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                              May 9, 2013

 Mr. McKinley (for himself, Mr. Rahall, Mrs. Capito, Mr. Gene Green of 
 Texas, and Mr. Kelly of Pennsylvania) introduced the following bill; 
       which was referred to the Committee on Financial Services

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
To require the Secretary of the Treasury to mint coins in commemoration 
        of the centennial of the establishment of Mother's Day.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Mother's Day Centennial 
Commemorative Coin Act''.

SEC. 2. FINDINGS.

    The Congress hereby finds as follows:
            (1) Anna Jarvis, who is considered to be the founder of the 
        modern Mother's Day, was born in Webster, West Virginia, on May 
        1, 1864.
            (2) A resident of Grafton, West Virginia, Anna Jarvis 
        dedicated much of her adult life to honoring her mother, Anna 
        Maria Reeves Jarvis, who passed on May 9, 1905.
            (3) In 1908, the Andrews Methodist Episcopal Church of 
        Grafton, West Virginia, officially proclaimed the third 
        anniversary of Anna Maria Reeves Jarvis's death to be Mother's 
        Day.
            (4) In 1910, West Virginia Governor, William Glasscock, 
        issued the first Mother's Day Proclamation encouraging all West 
        Virginians to attend church and wear white carnations.
            (5) On May 8, 1914, the Sixty-Third Congress approved H.J. 
        Res. 263, designating the second Sunday in May to be observed 
        as Mother's Day, and encouraging all Americans to display the 
        American flag at their homes as a public expression of the love 
        and reverence for the mothers of our Nation.
            (6) On May 9, 1914, President Woodrow Wilson issued a 
        Presidential Proclamation directing government officials to 
        display the American flag on all government buildings and 
        inviting the American people to display the flag at their homes 
        on the second Sunday of May as a public expression of the love 
        and reverence for the mothers of our Nation.

SEC. 3. COIN SPECIFICATIONS.

    (a) Denominations.--The Secretary of the Treasury (hereinafter in 
this Act referred to as the ``Secretary'') shall mint and issue not 
more than 400,000 $1 coins, each of which shall--
            (1) weigh 26.73 grams;
            (2) have a diameter of 1.500 inches; and
            (3) contain 90 percent silver and 10 percent copper.
    (b) Legal Tender.--The coins minted under this Act shall be legal 
tender, as provided in section 5103 of title 31, United States Code.
    (c) Numismatic Items.--For purposes of section 5136 of title 31, 
United States Code, all coins minted under this Act shall be considered 
to be numismatic items.

SEC. 4. DESIGN OF COINS.

    (a) Design Requirements.--The design of the coins minted under this 
Act shall be emblematic of the 100th anniversary of President Wilson's 
proclamation designating the second Sunday in May as Mother's Day.
    (b) Designation and Inscriptions.--On each coin minted under this 
Act, there shall be--
            (1) a designation of the value of the coin;
            (2) an inscription of the year ``2014''; and
            (3) inscriptions of the words ``Liberty'', ``In God We 
        Trust'', ``United States of America'', and ``E Pluribus Unum''.
    (c) Selection.--The design for the coins minted under this Act 
shall be--
            (1) selected by the Secretary after consultation with the 
        Commission of Fine Arts; and
            (2) reviewed by the Citizens Coinage Advisory Committee 
        established under section 5135 of title 31, United States Code.

SEC. 5. ISSUANCE OF COINS.

    (a) Quality of Coins.--Coins minted under this Act shall be issued 
in uncirculated and proof qualities.
    (b) Commencement of Issuance.--The Secretary may issue coins minted 
under this Act beginning on January 1, 2014, except that the Secretary 
may initiate sales of such coins before such date.
    (c) Termination of Minting Authority.--No coins shall be minted 
under this Act after December 31, 2014.

SEC. 6. SALE OF COINS.

    (a) Sale Price.--Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the 
coins minted under this Act shall be sold by the Secretary at a price 
equal to the sum of the face value of the coins, the surcharge required 
under section 7(a) for the coins, and the cost of designing and issuing 
such coins (including labor, materials, dies, use of machinery, 
overhead expenses, and marketing).
    (b) Bulk Sales.--The Secretary shall make bulk sales of the coins 
minted under this Act at a reasonable discount.
    (c) Prepaid Orders at a Discount.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary shall accept prepaid orders 
        for the coins minted under this Act before the issuance of such 
        coins.
            (2) Discount.--Sale prices with respect to prepaid orders 
        under paragraph (1) shall be at a reasonable discount.

SEC. 7. SURCHARGES.

    (a) Surcharge Required.--All sales of coins minted under this Act 
shall include a surcharge of $10 per coin.
    (b) Distribution.--Subject to section 5134(f) of title 31, United 
States Code, all surcharges which are received by the Secretary from 
the sale of coins minted under this Act shall be promptly paid by the 
Secretary as follows:
            (1) One-half to the St. Jude Children's Research Hospital, 
        for the purpose of furthering research funded by Hospital.
            (2) One-half to the National Osteoporosis Foundation, for 
        the purpose of furthering research funded by the Foundation.
    (c) Audits.--The St. Jude Children's Research Hospital and the 
National Osteoporosis Foundation shall be subject to the audit 
requirements of section 5134(f)(2) of title 31, United States Code, 
with regard to the amounts received by the respective organizations 
under subsection (b).
                                 <all>
