
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H. Res. 107 Reported in House (RH)]

                                                   House Calendar No. 7
113th CONGRESS
  1st Session
H. RES. 107

                          [Report No. 113-15]

Providing for consideration of the bill (H.R. 890) to prohibit waivers 
 relating to compliance with the work requirements for the program of 
block grants to States for temporary assistance for needy families, and 
                          for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                             March 12, 2013

    Mr. Cole of Oklahoma, from the Committee on Rules, reported the 
  following resolution; which was referred to the House Calendar and 
                         ordered to be printed

_______________________________________________________________________

                               RESOLUTION


 
Providing for consideration of the bill (H.R. 890) to prohibit waivers 
 relating to compliance with the work requirements for the program of 
block grants to States for temporary assistance for needy families, and 
                          for other purposes.

    Resolved, That upon the adoption of this resolution it shall be in 
order to consider in the House the bill (H.R. 890) to prohibit waivers 
relating to compliance with the work requirements for the program of 
block grants to States for temporary assistance for needy families, and 
for other purposes. All points of order against consideration of the 
bill are waived. An amendment in the nature of a substitute consisting 
of the text of Rules Committee Print 113-3 shall be considered as 
adopted. The bill, as amended, shall be considered as read. All points 
of order against provisions in the bill, as amended, are waived. The 
previous question shall be considered as ordered on the bill, as 
amended, and on any amendment thereto to final passage without 
intervening motion except: (1) one hour of debate equally divided and 
controlled by the chair and ranking minority member of the Committee on 
Ways and Means; and (2) one motion to recommit with or without 
instructions.
                                                   House Calendar No. 7

113th CONGRESS

  1st Session

                              H. RES. 107

                          [Report No. 113-15]

_______________________________________________________________________

                               RESOLUTION

Providing for consideration of the bill (H.R. 890) to prohibit waivers 
 relating to compliance with the work requirements for the program of 
block grants to States for temporary assistance for needy families, and 
                          for other purposes.

_______________________________________________________________________

                             March 12, 2013

        Referred to the House Calendar and ordered to be printed
