
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 773 Introduced in House (IH)]

113th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                H. R. 773

To amend the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985 
  to exempt the Department of Defense from reduction under any order 
     issued to carry out a sequestration pursuant to section 251A.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                           February 15, 2013

  Mr. Forbes introduced the following bill; which was referred to the 
                        Committee on the Budget

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
To amend the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985 
  to exempt the Department of Defense from reduction under any order 
     issued to carry out a sequestration pursuant to section 251A.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE EXEMPTION FROM SECTION 251A 
              SEQUESTRATION.

    (a) Calculation of Total Deficit Reduction.--Paragraph (3) of 
section 251A of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act 
of 1985 is amended--
            (1) in subparagraph (A), by striking ``$1,200,000,000,000'' 
        and inserting ``$600,000,000,000''; and
            (2) in subparagraph (E), by striking ``$24,000,000,000'' 
        and inserting ``$12,000,000,000''.
    (b) Allocation to Functions.--Paragraph (4) of section 251A of the 
Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985 is amended to 
read as follows:
            ``(4) Allocation to functions.--On January 2, 2013, for 
        fiscal year 2013, and in its sequestration preview report for 
        fiscal years 2014 through 2021 pursuant to section 254(c), OMB 
        shall allocate the total reduction calculated pursuant to 
        paragraph (3) for that year to discretionary appropriations and 
        direct spending accounts in all non-defense functions.''.
    (c) Defense Function Reduction.--Paragraph (5) of section 251A of 
the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985 is 
repealed.
    (d) Implementing Discretionary Reductions.--(1) Paragraph (7)(A) of 
section 251A of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act 
of 1985 is amended by striking ``achieve--'' and inserting ``achieve'', 
by striking clause (i), and by striking ``(ii)'' and moving such text 2 
ems to the left.
    (2) Paragraph (7)(B) of section 251A of such Act is amended by 
striking ``achieve--'' and inserting ``achieve'', by striking clause 
(i), and by striking ``(ii)'' and moving such text 2 ems to the left.
    (e) Implementing Direct Spending Reductions.--The first sentence of 
paragraph (8) of section 251A of the Balanced Budget and Emergency 
Deficit Control Act of 1985 is amended by striking ``paragraphs (5) and 
(6)'' and inserting ``paragraph (6)''.

SEC. 2. CONFORMING AMENDMENT.

    Section 901(e) of American Taxpayer Relief Act of 2012 is amended 
by striking ``251A(5)(A), 251A(6)(A), and 251A(7)(A),'' and inserting 
``251A(6)(A) and 251A(7)(A),''.
                                 <all>
