
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H. Res. 300 Reported in House (RH)]

                                                  House Calendar No. 43
113th CONGRESS
  1st Session
H. RES. 300

                          [Report No. 113-157]

   Providing for consideration of the bill (H.R. 2668) to delay the 
 application of the individual health insurance mandate; and providing 
 for consideration of the bill (H.R. 2667) to delay the application of 
     the employer health insurance mandate, and for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                             July 16, 2013

   Mr. Burgess, from the Committee on Rules, reported the following 
resolution; which was referred to the House Calendar and ordered to be 
                                printed

_______________________________________________________________________

                               RESOLUTION


 
   Providing for consideration of the bill (H.R. 2668) to delay the 
 application of the individual health insurance mandate; and providing 
 for consideration of the bill (H.R. 2667) to delay the application of 
     the employer health insurance mandate, and for other purposes.

    Resolved, That upon the adoption of this resolution it shall be in 
order to consider in the House the bill (H.R. 2668) to delay the 
application of the individual health insurance mandate. All points of 
order against consideration of the bill are waived. The bill shall be 
considered as read. All points of order against provisions in the bill 
are waived. The previous question shall be considered as ordered on the 
bill and on any amendment thereto to final passage without intervening 
motion except: (1) one hour of debate equally divided and controlled by 
the chair and ranking minority member of the Committee on Ways and 
Means; and (2) one motion to recommit.
    Sec. 2.  Upon the adoption of this resolution it shall be in order 
to consider in the House the bill (H.R. 2667) to delay the application 
of the employer health insurance mandate, and for other purposes. All 
points of order against consideration of the bill are waived. The bill 
shall be considered as read. All points of order against provisions in 
the bill are waived. The previous question shall be considered as 
ordered on the bill and on any amendment thereto to final passage 
without intervening motion except: (1) one hour of debate equally 
divided and controlled by the chair and ranking minority member of the 
Committee on Ways and Means; and (2) one motion to recommit.
    Sec. 3. (a) In the engrossment of H.R. 2668, the Clerk shall--
            (1) add the text of H.R. 2667, as passed by the House, as 
        new matter at the end of H.R. 2668;
            (2) conform the title of H.R. 2668 to reflect the addition 
        of the text of H.R. 2667, as passed by the House, to the 
        engrossment;
            (3) assign appropriate designations to provisions within 
        the engrossment; and
            (4) conform cross-references and provisions for short 
        titles within the engrossment.
    (b) Upon the addition of the text of H.R. 2667, as passed by the 
House, to the engrossment of H.R. 2668, H.R. 2667 shall be laid on the 
table.
                                                  House Calendar No. 43

113th CONGRESS

  1st Session

                              H. RES. 300

                          [Report No. 113-157]

_______________________________________________________________________

                               RESOLUTION

   Providing for consideration of the bill (H.R. 2668) to delay the 
 application of the individual health insurance mandate; and providing 
 for consideration of the bill (H.R. 2667) to delay the application of 
     the employer health insurance mandate, and for other purposes.

_______________________________________________________________________

                             July 16, 2013

        Referred to the House Calendar and ordered to be printed
