
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 5514 Introduced in House (IH)]

113th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                H. R. 5514

 To amend the Small Business Act to establish a loan program to assist 
and provide incentives for manufacturers to reinvest in making products 
             in the United States, and for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                           September 17, 2014

  Mr. Israel introduced the following bill; which was referred to the 
                      Committee on Small Business

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
 To amend the Small Business Act to establish a loan program to assist 
and provide incentives for manufacturers to reinvest in making products 
             in the United States, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Bring the Jobs Home Loan Act of 
2014''.

SEC. 2. SMALL MANUFACTURER DOMESTIC PRODUCTION LOAN PROGRAM.

    The Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 631 et seq.) is amended--
            (1) by redesignating section 47 as section 48; and
            (2) by inserting after section 46 the following:

``SEC. 47. SMALL MANUFACTURER DOMESTIC PRODUCTION LOAN PROGRAM.

    ``(a) Establishment.--Not later than 180 days after the date of 
enactment of the Bring the Jobs Home Loan Act of 2014, the 
Administrator shall establish a loan program to assist certain small 
business concerns to begin producing, in the United States, products 
that the concerns otherwise import.
    ``(b) Loan Authority.--In carrying out the program established 
under subsection (a), the Administrator may make a loan to a small 
business concern involved in manufacturing (as determined by the 
Administrator) to assist the concern to make facility and equipment 
changes necessary for the concern to begin producing, in the United 
States, a product that the concern is importing from a foreign country 
at the time the loan is made.
    ``(c) Applications.--To be eligible for a loan under subsection 
(b), a small business concern shall submit to the Administrator an 
application at such time, in such form, and containing such information 
as the Administrator may require.
    ``(d) Reports.--
            ``(1) Requirement.--Not later than 2 years after a small 
        business concern receives a loan under this section, the 
        concern shall submit to the Administrator a report describing--
                    ``(A) the facility and equipment changes made with 
                loan funds; and
                    ``(B) the progress made by the concern in 
                producing, in the United States, a product that the 
                concern was importing from a foreign country at the 
                time the loan was made.
            ``(2) Use of reports.--Notwithstanding any other provision 
        of law, the Administrator may consider the information 
        submitted by a small business concern in a report under 
        paragraph (1) in determining whether to provide to the 
        concern--
                    ``(A) an additional loan under this section; or
                    ``(B) loan assistance under any other program of 
                the Administration.
    ``(e) Limitation.--The Administrator may not make a loan under this 
section if the cost of the loan (as determined by the Administrator) is 
greater than 5 percent of the total amount made available to the 
Administrator for the cost of making loans under this section for the 
fiscal year in which the loan is made.''.
                                 <all>
