
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 4215 Introduced in House (IH)]

113th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                H. R. 4215

    To strengthen privacy and data security, and for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                             March 12, 2014

 Mr. Connolly introduced the following bill; which was referred to the 
              Committee on Oversight and Government Reform

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
    To strengthen privacy and data security, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Federal Agency Data Breach 
Notification Act of 2014''.

SEC. 2. PRIVACY BREACH REQUIREMENTS.

    (a) Information Security.--
            (1) Amendment.--Subchapter III of chapter 35 of title 44, 
        United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the 
        following:
``Sec. 3550. Privacy breach requirements
    ``(a) Policies and Procedures.--The Director of the Office of 
Management and Budget shall establish and oversee policies and 
procedures for agencies to follow in the event of a breach of 
information security involving the disclosure of personally 
identifiable information, including requirements for--
            ``(1) not later than 72 hours after the agency discovers 
        such a breach, or discovers evidence that reasonably indicates 
        such a breach has occurred, notice to the individuals whose 
        personally identifiable information could be compromised as a 
        result of such breach;
            ``(2) timely reporting to a Federal cybersecurity center, 
        as designated by the Director of the Office of Management and 
        Budget; and
            ``(3) any additional actions that the Director finds 
        necessary and appropriate, including data breach analysis, 
        fraud resolution services, identity theft insurance, and credit 
        protection or monitoring services.
    ``(b) Required Agency Action.--The head of each agency shall ensure 
that actions taken in response to a breach of information security 
involving the disclosure of personally identifiable information under 
the authority or control of the agency comply with policies and 
procedures established by the Director of the Office of Management and 
Budget under subsection (a).
    ``(c) Report.--Not later than March 1 of each year, the Director of 
the Office of Management and Budget shall report to Congress on agency 
compliance with the policies and procedures established under 
subsection (a).
    ``(d) Federal Cybersecurity Center Defined.--The term `Federal 
cybersecurity center' means any of the following:
            ``(1) The Department of Defense Cyber Crime Center.
            ``(2) The Intelligence Community Incident Response Center.
            ``(3) The United States Cyber Command Joint Operations 
        Center.
            ``(4) The National Cyber Investigative Joint Task Force.
            ``(5) Central Security Service Threat Operations Center of 
        the National Security Agency.
            ``(6) The United States Computer Emergency Readiness Team.
            ``(7) Any successor to a center, team, or task force 
        described in paragraphs (1) through (6).
            ``(8) Any center that the Director of the Office of 
        Management and Budget determines is appropriate to carry out 
        the requirements of this section.''.
            (2) Technical and conforming amendment.--The table of 
        sections for subchapter III of chapter 35 of title 44, United 
        States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following:

``3550. Privacy breach requirements.''.
    (b) Amendments to the E-Government Act of 2002.--Section 
208(b)(1)(A) of the E-Government Act of 2002 (44 U.S.C. 3501 note; 
Public Law 107-347) is amended--
            (1) in clause (i), by striking ``or'' at the end;
            (2) in clause (ii), by striking the period at the end and 
        inserting ``; or''; and
            (3) by adding at the end the following new clause:
                            ``(iii) using information in an 
                        identifiable form purchased, or subscribed to 
                        for a fee, from a commercial data source.''.
    (c) Authority of the Director of the Office of Management and 
Budget With Respect to Federal Information Policy.--Section 3504(g) of 
title 44, United States Code, is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (1), by striking ``and'' at the end;
            (2) in paragraph (2), by striking ``. and'' and inserting 
        ``; and''; and
            (3) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
            ``(3) designate a Federal Chief Privacy Officer within the 
        Office of Management and Budget who is a noncareer appointee in 
        a Senior Executive Service position and who is a trained and 
        experienced privacy professional to carry out the 
        responsibilities of the Director with regard to privacy.''.
                                 <all>
