
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H. Res. 678 Introduced in House (IH)]

113th CONGRESS
  2d Session
H. RES. 678

   Providing for the consideration of the bill (S. 815) to prohibit 
employment discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation or gender 
                               identity.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                             July 22, 2014

Mr. Polis submitted the following resolution; which was referred to the 
                           Committee on Rules

_______________________________________________________________________

                               RESOLUTION


 
   Providing for the consideration of the bill (S. 815) to prohibit 
employment discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation or gender 
                               identity.

    Resolved, That immediately upon adoption of this resolution, the 
House shall proceed to the consideration in the House of the bill (S. 
815) to prohibit employment discrimination on the basis of sexual 
orientation or gender identity. All points of order against 
consideration of the bill are waived. The amendment described in 
section 2 shall be considered as adopted. The bill, as amended, shall 
be considered as read. All points of order against provisions in the 
bill, as amended, are waived. The previous question shall be considered 
as ordered on the bill, as amended, and on any further amendment 
thereto, to final passage without intervening motion except one hour of 
debate equally divided and controlled by the chair and ranking minority 
member of the Committee on Education and the Workforce and one motion 
to recommit.
    Sec. 2.  The amendment described in this section is an amendment to 
S. 815 to strike section 6 of the bill and insert the following:

``SEC. 6. EXEMPTION FOR RELIGIOUS ORGANIZATIONS.

    ``This Act shall not change the requirements of title VII of the 
Civil Rights Act of 1964 (42 U.S.C. 2000e et seq.), pursuant to section 
702(a) or 703(e)(2) of such Act (42 U.S.C. 2000e-1(a), 2000e-2(e)(2)), 
applicable to a religious corporation, association, educational 
institution, or society with respect to the employment of individuals 
of a particular religion to perform work connected with the carrying on 
by such corporation, association, educational institution, or society 
of its activities. Such organizations are not exempt from the 
requirements of this Act to refrain from discrimination based on sexual 
orientation or gender identity, in the same manner as is required with 
respect to discrimination based on race, color, sex and national origin 
under such title.''.
    Sec. 3.  Clause 1(c) of rule XIX shall not apply to the 
consideration of S. 815.
                                 <all>
