
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 3290 Introduced in House (IH)]

113th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                H. R. 3290

 To provide that all Federal employees shall be deemed to be employees 
    excepted from furlough for purposes of the Government shutdown 
    commencing on or about October 1, 2013, and for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                            October 11, 2013

Mr. Kingston (for himself, Mr. Ruppersberger, Mr. Wolf, and Mr. Moran) 
 introduced the following bill; which was referred to the Committee on 
                    Oversight and Government Reform

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
 To provide that all Federal employees shall be deemed to be employees 
    excepted from furlough for purposes of the Government shutdown 
    commencing on or about October 1, 2013, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. TREATMENT OF FEDERAL EMPLOYEES DURING GOVERNMENT SHUTDOWN.

    (a) In General.--This Act applies with respect to any lapse in 
appropriations commencing on or about October 1, 2013.
    (b) All Employees Treated as Excepted Employees.--During a lapse in 
appropriations described in subsection (a), all Federal employees 
shall, for purposes of section 1342 of title 31, United States Code 
(and notwithstanding the last sentence of such section), be deemed to 
be performing services relating to emergencies involving the safety of 
human life or the protection of property.
    (c) Normal Rules Relating to Leave and Holidays.--Effective as of 
October 1, 2013, Federal employees considered excepted from furlough 
during a lapse in appropriations which is described in subsection (a), 
and which affects the agency activity in which the employee is engaged, 
shall not be considered to be furloughed when on leave and shall be 
subject to the same laws, rules, and regulations relating to leave and 
holidays as would apply if no lapse in appropriations had occurred.
    (d) Compensation for Furloughed Employees.--Federal employees 
furloughed as a result of a lapse in appropriations described in 
subsection (a) shall be compensated at their standard rate of 
compensation, for the period for which they were so furloughed, as soon 
as practicable after such lapse in appropriations ends.
    (e) Definition.--For purposes of this Act, the term ``Federal 
employee'' means an officer or employee of the United States 
Government.
                                 <all>
