
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H. Res. 36 Introduced in House (IH)]

113th CONGRESS
  1st Session
H. RES. 36

Establishing a select committee to investigate and report on the attack 
           on the United States consulate in Benghazi, Libya.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                            January 18, 2013

   Mr. Wolf (for himself, Mr. Barletta, Mr. Aderholt, Mr. Franks of 
  Arizona, Mr. Weber of Texas, Mr. Posey, Mr. Wittman, Mr. Griffin of 
Arkansas, Mr. Schock, Mr. Meehan, Mr. King of Iowa, Mr. Duncan of South 
Carolina, Mr. Olson, Mr. Johnson of Ohio, Mr. Wilson of South Carolina, 
 Mr. Brooks of Alabama, Mr. Gerlach, Mr. Brady of Texas, Mr. McKinley, 
 Mr. Jordan, and Mr. Flores) submitted the following resolution; which 
                 was referred to the Committee on Rules

_______________________________________________________________________

                               RESOLUTION


 
Establishing a select committee to investigate and report on the attack 
           on the United States consulate in Benghazi, Libya.

    Resolved, That

SECTION 1. ESTABLISHMENT.

    There is hereby established a select Committee to investigate and 
report on the attack on the American consulate in Benghazi, Libya 
(hereinafter referred to as the ``select committee'').

SEC. 2. COMPOSITION.

    (a) The select committee shall be composed of 19 members as 
follows:
            (1) The chair and ranking member of the Committee on Armed 
        Services (or a designee from among the members of that 
        committee).
            (2) The chair and ranking member of the Committee on 
        Foreign Affairs (or a designee from among the members of that 
        committee).
            (3) The chair and ranking member of the Committee on 
        Homeland Security (or a designee from among the members of that 
        committee).
            (4) The chair and ranking member of the Committee on 
        Intelligence (or a designee from among the members of that 
        committee).
            (5) The chair and ranking member of the Committee on the 
        Judiciary (or a designee from among the members of that 
        committee).
            (6) The chair and ranking member of the Committee on 
        Oversight and Government Reform (or a designee from among the 
        members of that committee).
            (7) Five members appointed by the Speaker.
            (8) Two members appointed by the Speaker after consultation 
        with the minority leader.
If the chair or ranking member of any such committee declines to serve 
on the select committee, then the Speaker in the case of a chair, or 
the Speaker after consultation with the minority leader in the case of 
a ranking member, shall designate the member or members from that 
committee to serve on the select committee.
    (b) The Speaker shall designate one member as chairman and the 
minority leader shall designate one member as the ranking minority 
member of the select committee.

SEC. 3. INVESTIGATION AND REPORT ON THE ATTACK ON THE UNITED STATES 
              CONSULATE IN BENGHAZI, LIBYA.

    Not later than 90 days after the initial meeting of the select 
committee, the select committee shall conduct an investigation of and 
submit to the House a report on--
            (1) any intelligence known to the United States relating to 
        the attack on the United States consulate in Benghazi, Libya, 
        on September 11, 2012;
            (2) any requests for additional security, or actions taken 
        by Federal agencies to improve security at the consulate before 
        the attack;
            (3) a definitive timeline of the attack;
            (4) how the relevant agencies and the executive branch 
        responded to the attack and whether appropriate congressional 
        notifications were made;
            (5) any improper conduct by officials relating to the 
        attack;
            (6) recommendations on what steps Congress and the 
        President should take to prevent future attack; and
            (7) any other relevant issues relating to the attack or the 
        response to the attack.

SEC. 4. PROCEDURES OF THE SELECT COMMITTEE.

    Rule XI of the Rules of the House of Representatives, including 
clause 2(j)(1) (guaranteeing the minority additional witnesses) and 
clause 2(m)(3) (providing for the authority to subpoena witnesses and 
documents), shall apply to the select committee.

SEC. 5. JOINT OPERATIONS.

    The chair of the select committee, in conducting the investigation 
described in section 3, may consult with the chair of any Senate 
committee conducting a parallel investigation regarding meeting jointly 
to receive testimony, the scheduling of hearings or issuance of 
subpoenas, and joint staff interviews of key witnesses.

SEC. 6. STAFF; FUNDING.

    (a)(1) To the extent practicable, the select committee shall 
utilize the services of staff of employing entities of the House. At 
the request of the chair in consultation with the ranking minority 
member, staff of employing entities of the House may be detailed to the 
select committee to carry out this resolution and shall be deemed to be 
staff of the select committee.
    (2) The chair, upon consultation with the ranking minority member, 
may employ and fix the compensation of such staff as the chair 
considers necessary to carry out this resolution.
    (b) There are authorized to be appropriated from the applicable 
accounts of the House such sums as may be necessary to carry out this 
resolution. Payments for the expenses of the select committee shall be 
made on vouchers signed by the chairman and approved in the manner 
directed by the Committee on House Administration. Amounts made 
available under this subsection shall be expended in accordance with 
regulations prescribed by the Committee on House Administration.

SEC. 7. DISSOLUTION AND DISPOSITION OF RECORDS.

    (a) The select committee shall cease to exist 30 days after filing 
the report required under section 3.
    (b) Upon dissolution of the select committee, the records of the 
select committee shall become the records of any committee designated 
by the Speaker.
                                 <all>
