
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 5312 Introduced in House (IH)]

113th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                H. R. 5312

 To direct the Administrator of the Federal Aviation Administration to 
 issue regulations to improve the tracking of aircraft in flight, and 
                          for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                             July 31, 2014

 Mr. Price of North Carolina (for himself and Mr. Duncan of Tennessee) 
 introduced the following bill; which was referred to the Committee on 
                   Transportation and Infrastructure

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
 To direct the Administrator of the Federal Aviation Administration to 
 issue regulations to improve the tracking of aircraft in flight, and 
                          for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Safe Aviation and Flight Emergency 
Tracking Act of 2014''.

SEC. 2. IMPROVED TRACKING OF AIRCRAFT IN FLIGHT.

    (a) In General.--Not later than 1 year after the date of enactment 
of this Act, the Administrator of the Federal Aviation Administration 
shall issue regulations to ensure that a covered aircraft is equipped 
with technology that provides for--
            (1) continuous tracking of information regarding the 
        aircraft during flight, including information regarding the 
        position, altitude, and speed of the aircraft; and
            (2) the timely and cost effective recovery of the cockpit 
        voice recorder and flight data recorder of the aircraft in the 
        event of a crash or other serious incident.
    (b) Study of Certain Technologies.--In carrying out subsection (a), 
the Administrator shall investigate at least the following:
            (1) Automatic dependent surveillance.
            (2) Automatic deployable flight recorders.
            (3) Emergency locator transmitters.
            (4) Satellite navigation and communications.
    (c) Interim Report.--Not later than 60 days after the date of 
enactment of this Act, the Administrator shall submit to the Committee 
on Appropriations and the Committee on Transportation and 
Infrastructure of the House of Representatives and the Committee on 
Appropriations and the Committee on Commerce, Science, and 
Transportation of the Senate a report specifying technologies the 
Administrator is considering for inclusion in the regulations required 
under subsection (a), including a description of costs and benefits 
associated with each of the technologies.
    (d) Coordination.--The Administrator shall work collaboratively 
with the International Civil Aviation Organization and other relevant 
stakeholders to develop and implement international standards that 
improve the tracking of aircraft in flight.
    (e) Covered Aircraft Defined.--In this section, the term ``covered 
aircraft'' means a passenger aircraft--
            (1) able to carry at least 120 passengers;
            (2) ordered on or after January 1, 2016; and
            (3) providing scheduled passenger air transportation (as 
        such term is defined in section 40102(a) of title 49, United 
        States Code).
                                 <all>
