
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 805 Introduced in House (IH)]

113th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                H. R. 805

     To repeal certain changes to contracts with Medicare Quality 
           Improvement Organizations, and for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                           February 25, 2013

    Mr. Price of Georgia (for himself and Mr. Kind) introduced the 
following bill; which was referred to the Committee on Ways and Means, 
 and in addition to the Committee on Energy and Commerce, for a period 
    to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
consideration of such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the 
                          committee concerned

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
     To repeal certain changes to contracts with Medicare Quality 
           Improvement Organizations, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Quality Improvement Organization 
Program Restoration Act''.

SEC. 2. REPEAL OF CHANGES TO CONTRACTS WITH MEDICARE QIOS.

    Section 261 of the Trade Adjustment Assistance Extension Act of 
2011 (relating to contracts with Quality Improvement Organizations) is 
repealed and the provisions of law amended by such section are restored 
as if such section had never been enacted.

SEC. 3. QUALITY IMPROVEMENT FUNDING.

    Section 1159 of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1320c-8) is 
amended--
            (1) by striking ``Expenses incurred'' and inserting ``(a) 
        Expenses incurred''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following new subsection:
    ``(b)(1) With respect to any 3-year period for which 3-year 
contracts are entered into under this part for contract periods 
beginning on or after August 1, 2014, and ending on or before July 31, 
2021, the aggregate amount of funds payable during any such 3-year 
period for such contracts shall not exceed $1,674,000,000.
    ``(2) For any contract period beginning on or after August 1, 2014, 
at least 80 percent of the funds to carry out this part shall be 
expended to directly fund the contracts with utilization and quality 
control peer review organizations under section 1153(b).
    ``(3) In order to reduce spending of the amount in paragraph (1) by 
$330,000,000, for the period beginning on October 1, 2014, and ending 
on September 30, 2021, the aggregate amount of funds payable for 
contracts under this part shall be reduced by $330,000,000.''.
                                 <all>
