
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.J. Res. 89 Placed on Calendar Senate (PCS)]

                                                       Calendar No. 214
113th CONGRESS
  1st Session
H. J. RES. 89


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                            October 9, 2013

                     Received; read the first time

                            October 10, 2013

            Read the second time and placed on the calendar

_______________________________________________________________________

                            JOINT RESOLUTION


 
Making appropriations for the salaries and related expenses of certain 
 Federal employees during a lapse in funding authority for fiscal year 
 2014, to establish a bicameral working group on deficit reduction and 
                economic growth, and for other purposes.

    Resolved by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United 
States of America in Congress assembled,

                TITLE I--FEDERAL WORKER PAY FAIRNESS ACT

That the following sums are hereby appropriated, out of any money in 
the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, and out of applicable 
corporate or other revenues, receipts, and funds, for the salaries and 
related expenses of certain Federal employees for fiscal year 2014, and 
for other purposes, namely:
    Sec. 101.  Such amounts as may be necessary for paying salaries and 
related expenses of Federal employees excepted from the provisions of 
the Antideficiency Act (31 U.S.C. 1341 et seq.) who work during the 
period beginning October 1, 2013, and ending December 15, 2013, when 
there is otherwise no funding authority for such salaries and related 
expenses: Provided, That not later than December 20, 2013, the Director 
of the Office of Management and Budget shall provide to the Committees 
on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the Senate a 
report specifying the use of funds made available to the Executive 
Branch by this joint resolution.
    Sec. 102.  Expenditures made pursuant to this joint resolution 
shall be charged to the applicable appropriation, fund, or 
authorization whenever a bill in which such applicable appropriation, 
fund, or authorization is contained is enacted into law.
    Sec. 103.  It is the sense of Congress that this joint resolution 
may also be referred to as the ``Federal Worker Pay Fairness Act''.
     This title may be cited as the ``Excepted Employees' Pay 
Continuing Appropriations Resolution, 2014''.

   TITLE II--DEFICIT REDUCTION AND ECONOMIC GROWTH WORKING GROUP ACT

SEC. 201. SHORT TITLE.

    This title may be cited as the ``Deficit Reduction and Economic 
Growth Working Group Act of 2013''.

SEC. 202. BICAMERAL WORKING GROUP ON DEFICIT REDUCTION AND ECONOMIC 
              GROWTH.

    (a) Establishment.--There is hereby established a bicameral working 
group to be known as the ``Bicameral Working Group on Deficit Reduction 
and Economic Growth'' (hereinafter referred to as the ``working 
group'').
    (b) Purpose.--The working group shall recommend to the House of 
Representatives and the Senate--
            (1) overall levels of discretionary spending, including for 
        the fiscal year ending on September 30, 2014;
            (2) changes in the statutory limit on the public debt; and
            (3) reforms in direct spending programs.
    (c) Membership.--
            (1) The working group shall be comprised of 20 members to 
        be appointed as follows:
                    (A) The Speaker shall appoint 10 Members of the 
                House of Representatives, of which one shall be 
                designated as House co-chair and 4 shall be on the 
                recommendation of the minority leader of the House of 
                Representatives.
                    (B) The majority leader of the Senate shall appoint 
                10 Senators, of which one shall be designated as Senate 
                co-chair and 4 shall be on the recommendation of the 
                minority leader of the Senate.
            (2) Any vacancy occurring in the membership of the working 
        group shall be filled in the same manner as the original 
        designation was made.
            (3) Each appointment under this subsection shall be made 
        not later than one calendar day after enactment of this Act.
    (d) Meetings.--The members of the working group shall meet not 
later than one calendar day after their appointment pursuant to 
subsection (c) and shall meet on each calendar day thereafter unless 
both co-chairs jointly determine that there is good cause to dispense 
with such meeting.
    (e) Adoption of Recommendations.--The working group may not report 
any recommendation unless it receives the support of a majority of the 
members appointed by both the Speaker of the House of Representatives 
and the majority leader of the Senate.
    (f) Report.--
            (1) The working group shall report its recommendations, 
        including any legislative language required to implement those 
        recommendations, to the House of Representatives and the Senate 
        within 3 calendar days after their adoption.
            (2) The report shall be referred in the House of 
        Representatives by the Speaker in accordance with clause 2 of 
        rule XIV.
            (3) The report shall include any supplemental, minority, or 
        additional views submitted to the co-chairs prior to its 
        transmission pursuant to paragraph (1).
    (g) Termination.--The working group shall terminate immediately 
after transmission of the report under subsection (f).
    (h) Rulemaking.--The provisions of this section are enacted by 
Congress--
            (1) as an exercise of the rulemaking power of the House of 
        Representatives and the Senate, respectively, and as such they 
        shall be considered as part of the rules of each House, 
        respectively, or of that House to which they specifically 
        apply, and such rules shall supercede other rules only to the 
        extent that they are inconsistent therewith; and
            (2) with full recognition of the constitutional right of 
        either House to change such rules (so far as relating to such 
        House) at any time, in the same manner, and to the same extent 
        as in the case of any other rule of such House.

            Passed the House of Representatives October 8, 2013.

            Attest:

                                                 KAREN L. HAAS,

                                                                 Clerk.




                                                       Calendar No. 214

113th CONGRESS

  1st Session

                             H. J. RES. 89

_______________________________________________________________________

                            JOINT RESOLUTION

Making appropriations for the salaries and related expenses of certain 
 Federal employees during a lapse in funding authority for fiscal year 
 2014, to establish a bicameral working group on deficit reduction and 
                economic growth, and for other purposes.

_______________________________________________________________________

                            October 10, 2013

            Read the second time and placed on the calendar
