
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 3170 Introduced in House (IH)]

113th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                H. R. 3170

 To provide that the only health plans that the Federal Government may 
make available to Federal employees responsible for the administration 
  of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act are those created 
under such Act or offered through a health insurance exchange, and for 
                            other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                           September 23, 2013

    Mr. Posey (for himself, Mr. Rooney, and Mr. Miller of Florida) 
 introduced the following bill; which was referred to the Committee on 
 Oversight and Government Reform, and in addition to the Committees on 
 Energy and Commerce, House Administration, and Appropriations, for a 
 period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
consideration of such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the 
                          committee concerned

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
 To provide that the only health plans that the Federal Government may 
make available to Federal employees responsible for the administration 
  of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act are those created 
under such Act or offered through a health insurance exchange, and for 
                            other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Health Care Regulator Accountability 
Act''.

SEC. 2. HEALTH PLANS CREATED UNDER PPACA OR OFFERED THROUGH EXCHANGES 
              TO BE ONLY HEALTH PLANS FEDERAL GOVERNMENT MAY MAKE 
              AVAILABLE TO FEDERAL EMPLOYEES RESPONSIBLE FOR 
              ADMINISTRATION OF PPACA.

    Section 1312(d)(3)(D) of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care 
Act (42 U.S.C. 18032(d)(3)(D)) is amended--
            (1) in the subparagraph heading, by striking ``Members of 
        congress'' and inserting ``Members of congress and certain 
        federal employees'';
            (2) in clause (i), in the matter preceding subclause (I)--
                    (A) by striking ``after the effective date of this 
                subtitle,'' and inserting ``after December 31, 2013,'';
                    (B) by striking ``Members of Congress and 
                congressional staff'' and inserting ``Members of 
                Congress, congressional staff, and Federal employees 
                responsible for the administration of this Act''; and
                    (C) by striking ``a Member of Congress or 
                congressional staff'' and inserting ``a Member of 
                Congress, congressional staff, or Federal employee 
                responsible for the administration of this Act''; and
            (3) in clause (ii), by adding at the end the following:
                                    ``(III) Federal employee 
                                responsible for the administration of 
                                this act.--The term `Federal employee 
                                responsible for the administration of 
                                this Act', as used with respect to a 
                                year, means a Federal employee--
                                            ``(aa) who holds a position 
                                        in the Department of Health and 
                                        Human Services, the Internal 
                                        Revenue Service, or any other 
                                        Executive agency (as defined by 
                                        section 105 of title 5, United 
                                        States Code) during such year; 
                                        and
                                            ``(bb) the duties and 
                                        responsibilities of whose 
                                        position (as described in item 
                                        (aa)) during such year--

                                                    ``(AA) involves the 
                                                promulgation of rules 
                                                or regulations to carry 
                                                out this Act (or 
                                                amendments made by this 
                                                Act);

                                                    ``(BB) involves the 
                                                enforcement of this Act 
                                                (or amendments made by 
                                                this Act); or

                                                    ``(CC) otherwise 
                                                involves the 
                                                administration of this 
                                                Act (or amendments made 
                                                by this Act),

                                        as determined under regulations 
                                        promulgated by the head of the 
                                        employing agency.
                                    ``(IV) Federal employee.--The term 
                                `Federal employee' means an `employee', 
                                as defined in section 2105 of title 5, 
                                United States Code, and includes an 
                                individual to whom subsection (c) or 
                                (f) of such section 2105 pertains 
                                (whether or not such individual 
                                otherwise satisfies such section).''.

SEC. 3. ENFORCEMENT.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary of Health and Human Services, the 
Director of the Internal Revenue Service, and the head of any other 
agency involved in promulgating rules or regulations to carry out or to 
enforce the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act or any 
amendments made by such Act (as described in the amendment made by 
section 2(3)) may not, in any fiscal year, obligate or expend more than 
90 percent of the funds made available for the salaries and expenses of 
the office of the Secretary, Director, or head (as the case may be) for 
such fiscal year unless such regulations are promulgated and take 
effect before the close of such fiscal year.
    (b) Rescission.--Any amounts which (by virtue of subsection (a)) 
remain precluded from obligation or expenditure on the last day of any 
fiscal year shall be rescinded on the close of such last day.
    (c) Limitation.--Nothing in this section shall be considered to 
affect any funds or other amounts to the extent that such amounts would 
(disregarding this section) otherwise be available for purposes apart 
from salaries or other administrative expenses of the office involved.
                                 <all>
