
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 5658 Introduced in House (IH)]

113th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                H. R. 5658

      To revise the definition of ``manufactured home'' under the 
 Manufactured Housing Construction and Safety Standards Act of 1974 to 
 clarify the exclusion of certain recreational vehicles, and for other 
                               purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                           September 18, 2014

Mr. Stutzman (for himself, Mrs. Walorski, and Mr. Duffy) introduced the 
   following bill; which was referred to the Committee on Financial 
                                Services

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
      To revise the definition of ``manufactured home'' under the 
 Manufactured Housing Construction and Safety Standards Act of 1974 to 
 clarify the exclusion of certain recreational vehicles, and for other 
                               purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Recreational Vehicle Certainty Act 
of 2014''.

SEC. 2. DEFINITION OF ``MANUFACTURED HOME''.

    Paragraph (6) of section 603 of the Manufactured Housing 
Construction and Safety Standards Act of 1974 (42 U.S.C. 5402(6)) is 
amended by striking ``self-propelled recreational vehicle'' and 
inserting the following: ``recreational vehicle that is designed as 
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel, or 
seasonal use and built in compliance with consensus standards for such 
products, including (A) a self-propelled motorhome or recreational 
vehicle trailer that is towed by another vehicle without a special 
highway use permit and is regulated by the National Highway Traffic 
Safety Administration as a vehicle, and (B) a park model recreational 
vehicle that has a gross area of not greater than 400 square feet based 
on the exterior dimensions of the unit measured at the largest 
horizontal projections in the setup mode, excluding any loft area 
having less than 5 feet in ceiling height, roof overhangs, and exterior 
porch or deck area''.

SEC. 3. REGULATIONS.

    Not later than the expiration of the 90-day period beginning on the 
date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Housing and Urban 
Development shall issue such regulations as may be necessary to carry 
out the amendments made by section 2.
                                 <all>
