
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 1241 Reported in Senate (RS)]

                                                       Calendar No. 643
113th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                H. R. 1241

                          [Report No. 113-303]


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                            December 9, 2013

   Received; read twice and referred to the Committee on Energy and 
                           Natural Resources

                           December 10, 2014

              Reported by Ms. Landrieu, without amendment

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 AN ACT


 
To facilitate a land exchange involving certain National Forest System 
       lands in the Inyo National Forest, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SPECIAL RULES FOR INYO NATIONAL FOREST LAND EXCHANGE.

    (a) Authority To Accept Lands Outside Boundaries of Inyo National 
Forest.--In any land exchange involving the conveyance of certain 
National Forest System land located within the boundaries of Inyo 
National Forest in California, as shown on the map titled ``Federal 
Parcel'' and dated June 2011, the Secretary of Agriculture may accept 
for acquisition in the exchange certain non-Federal lands in California 
lying outside the boundaries of Inyo National Forest, as shown on the 
maps titled ``DWP Parcel - Interagency Visitor Center Parcel'' and 
``DWP Parcel - Town of Bishop Parcel'' and dated June 2011, if the 
Secretary determines that acquisition of the non-Federal lands is 
desirable for National Forest System purposes.
    (b) Cash Equalization Payment; Use.--In an exchange described in 
subsection (a), the Secretary of Agriculture may accept a cash 
equalization payment in excess of 25 percent. Any such cash 
equalization payment shall be deposited into the account in the 
Treasury of the United States established by Public Law 90-171 
(commonly known as the Sisk Act; 16 U.S.C. 484a) and shall be made 
available to the Secretary for the acquisition of land for addition to 
the National Forest System.
    (c) Rule of Construction.--Nothing in this section shall be 
construed to grant the Secretary of Agriculture new land exchange 
authority. This section modifies the use of land exchange authorities 
already available to the Secretary as of the date of the enactment of 
this Act.
                                                       Calendar No. 643

113th CONGRESS

  2d Session

                               H. R. 1241

                          [Report No. 113-303]

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 AN ACT

To facilitate a land exchange involving certain National Forest System 
       lands in the Inyo National Forest, and for other purposes.

_______________________________________________________________________

                           December 10, 2014

                       Reported without amendment
