
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 1285 Introduced in House (IH)]

113th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                H. R. 1285

To amend the Controlled Substances Act to make any substance containing 
                    hydrocodone a schedule II drug.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                             March 20, 2013

 Mr. Buchanan (for himself, Mr. Markey, Mrs. Capito, Mr. Diaz-Balart, 
Mr. Duncan of Tennessee, Mr. Mica, Mr. Roe of Tennessee, Mr. Rogers of 
   Kentucky, Mr. Rooney, Ms. Ros-Lehtinen, Ms. Brown of Florida, Mr. 
 Cooper, Ms. Edwards, Mr. Hastings of Florida, Mr. Keating, Mr. Lynch, 
Mr. Rahall, Ms. Wilson of Florida, Mr. Kennedy, Mr. Murphy of Florida, 
   Ms. Castor of Florida, Mr. DesJarlais, Mr. Fincher, Mr. Miller of 
Florida, Mr. Nugent, Mr. Tiberi, Mr. Issa, Mr. Deutch, Mr. Posey, Mrs. 
  Black, Mr. Pearce, Mr. Marino, Ms. Slaughter, Mr. Westmoreland, Mr. 
    Stivers, Mr. Benishek, Mr. Crenshaw, Mr. Ross, Mr. Higgins, Mr. 
  Southerland, Mr. Tipton, Mr. Shuster, Mrs. Miller of Michigan, Mr. 
  Rodney Davis of Illinois, and Mr. Schock) introduced the following 
 bill; which was referred to the Committee on Energy and Commerce, and 
   in addition to the Committee on the Judiciary, for a period to be 
subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration 
  of such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the committee 
                               concerned

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
To amend the Controlled Substances Act to make any substance containing 
                    hydrocodone a schedule II drug.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. HYDROCODONE AMENDMENT.

    (a) In General.--Schedule III(d) in section 202 of the Controlled 
Substances Act (21 U.S.C. 812) is amended by--
            (1) striking paragraphs (3) and (4); and
            (2) redesignating paragraphs (5), (6), (7), and (8) as 
        paragraphs (3), (4), (5), and (6), respectively.
    (b) Effective Date.--The amendments made by subsection (a) shall 
take effect on the date that is 6 months after the date of enactment of 
this Act.

SEC. 2. PHYSICAL SECURITY REQUIREMENTS.

    Notwithstanding the amendments made by section 1, the Attorney 
General shall immediately, without regard to chapter 5 of title 5, 
United States Code, amend section 1301.72 of title 21, Code of Federal 
Regulations, relating to the physical security controls for non-
practitioners, narcotic treatment programs and compounders for narcotic 
treatment programs, and storage areas for controlled substances, to 
allow, for the 3-year period beginning on the date of enactment of this 
Act, manufacturers and distributors to store hydrocodone compound 
products in accordance with the physical security requirements for 
schedule III, IV, and V controlled substances.

SEC. 3. GAO REPORT.

    (a) In General.--Not later than 18 months after the date of 
enactment of this Act, the Comptroller General of the United States 
shall submit to Congress a report on the reclassification of 
hydrocodone products under this Act.
    (b) Contents.--The report required under subsection (a) shall 
include--
            (1) an assessment of the degree to which the 
        reclassification of hydrocodone products under this Act impacts 
        the ability of patients with legitimate medical needs, 
        particularly those in rural areas and nursing home facilities, 
        to access adequate pain management; and
            (2) recommendations necessary to address issues, if any, 
        relating to patient access to adequate pain management.
                                 <all>
