
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[S. 585 Introduced in Senate (IS)]

113th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                 S. 585

For the relief of Jose Alberto Martinez Moreno, Micaela Lopez Martinez, 
                         and Adilene Martinez.


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                             March 18, 2013

Mrs. Feinstein introduced the following bill; which was read twice and 
               referred to the Committee on the Judiciary

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
For the relief of Jose Alberto Martinez Moreno, Micaela Lopez Martinez, 
                         and Adilene Martinez.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. ADJUSTMENT OF STATUS.

    (a) In General.--Notwithstanding any other provision of law, for 
the purposes of the Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1101 et 
seq.), Jose Alberto Martinez Moreno, Micaela Lopez Martinez, and 
Adilene Martinez shall each be deemed to have been lawfully admitted 
to, and remained in, the United States, and shall be eligible for 
adjustment of status to that of an alien lawfully admitted for 
permanent residence under section 245 of the Immigration and 
Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1255) upon filing an application for such 
adjustment of status.
    (b) Application and Payment of Fees.--Subsection (a) shall apply 
only if the application for adjustment of status is filed with 
appropriate fees not later than 2 years after the date of the enactment 
of this Act.
    (c) Reduction of Immigrant Visa Numbers.--Upon the granting of 
permanent resident status to Jose Alberto Martinez Moreno, Micaela 
Lopez Martinez, and Adilene Martinez, the Secretary of State shall 
instruct the proper officer to reduce by 3, during the current or 
subsequent fiscal year, the total number of immigrant visas that are 
made available to natives of the country of birth of Jose Alberto 
Martinez Moreno, Micaela Lopez Martinez, and Adilene Martinez under 
section 202(e) or 203(a) of the Immigration and Nationality Act (8 
U.S.C. 1152(e) and 1153(a)), as applicable.
    (d) PAYGO.--The budgetary effects of this Act, for the purpose of 
complying with the Statutory Pay-As-You-Go Act of 2010, shall be 
determined by reference to the latest statement titled ``Budgetary 
Effects of PAYGO Legislation'' for this Act, submitted for printing in 
the Congressional Record by the Chairman of the Senate Budget 
Committee, provided that such statement has been submitted prior to the 
vote on passage.
                                 <all>
