
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[S. 1797 Placed on Calendar Senate (PCS)]

                                                       Calendar No. 259
113th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                S. 1797

To provide for the extension of certain unemployment benefits, and for 
                            other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                           December 10, 2013

   Mr. Reed (for himself, Mr. Brown, Mr. Whitehouse, and Mr. Coons) 
      introduced the following bill; which was read the first time

                           December 11, 2013

            Read the second time and placed on the calendar

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
To provide for the extension of certain unemployment benefits, and for 
                            other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Emergency Unemployment Compensation 
Extension Act of 2013''.

SEC. 2. EXTENSION OF EMERGENCY UNEMPLOYMENT COMPENSATION PROGRAM.

    (a) Extension.--Section 4007(a)(2) of the Supplemental 
Appropriations Act, 2008 (Public Law 110-252; 26 U.S.C. 3304 note) is 
amended by striking ``January 1, 2014'' and inserting ``January 1, 
2015''.
    (b) Funding.--Section 4004(e)(1) of the Supplemental Appropriations 
Act, 2008 (Public Law 110-252; 26 U.S.C. 3304 note) is amended--
            (1) in subparagraph (I), by striking ``and'' at the end;
            (2) in subparagraph (J), by inserting ``and'' at the end; 
        and
            (3) by inserting after subparagraph (J) the following:
                    ``(K) the amendments made by section 2(a) of the 
                Emergency Unemployment Compensation Extension Act of 
                2013;''.
    (c) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this section shall take 
effect as if included in the enactment of the American Taxpayer Relief 
Act of 2012 (Public Law 112-240).

SEC. 3. TEMPORARY EXTENSION OF EXTENDED BENEFIT PROVISIONS.

    (a) In General.--Section 2005 of the Assistance for Unemployed 
Workers and Struggling Families Act, as contained in Public Law 111-5 
(26 U.S.C. 3304 note), is amended--
            (1) by striking ``December 31, 2013'' each place it appears 
        and inserting ``December 31, 2014''; and
            (2) in subsection (c), by striking ``June 30, 2014'' and 
        inserting ``June 30, 2015''.
    (b) Extension of Matching for States With No Waiting Week.--Section 
5 of the Unemployment Compensation Extension Act of 2008 (Public Law 
110-449; 26 U.S.C. 3304 note) is amended by striking ``June 30, 2014'' 
and inserting ``June 30, 2015''.
    (c) Extension of Modification of Indicators Under the Extended 
Benefit Program.--Section 203 of the Federal-State Extended 
Unemployment Compensation Act of 1970 (26 U.S.C. 3304 note) is 
amended--
            (1) in subsection (d), by striking ``December 31, 2013'' 
        and inserting ``December 31, 2014''; and
            (2) in subsection (f)(2), by striking ``December 31, 2013'' 
        and inserting ``December 31, 2014''.
    (d) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this section shall take 
effect as if included in the enactment of the American Taxpayer Relief 
Act of 2012 (Public Law 112-240).

SEC. 4. EXTENSION OF FUNDING FOR REEMPLOYMENT SERVICES AND REEMPLOYMENT 
              AND ELIGIBILITY ASSESSMENT ACTIVITIES.

    (a) In General.--Section 4004(c)(2)(A) of the Supplemental 
Appropriations Act, 2008 (Public Law 110-252; 26 U.S.C. 3304 note) is 
amended by striking ``through fiscal year 2014'' and inserting 
``through fiscal year 2015''.
    (b) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this section shall take 
effect as if included in the enactment of the American Taxpayer Relief 
Act of 2012 (Public Law 112-240).

SEC. 5. ADDITIONAL EXTENDED UNEMPLOYMENT BENEFITS UNDER THE RAILROAD 
              UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE ACT.

    (a) Extension.--Section 2(c)(2)(D)(iii) of the Railroad 
Unemployment Insurance Act (45 U.S.C. 352(c)(2)(D)(iii)) is amended--
            (1) by striking ``June 30, 2013'' and inserting ``June 30, 
        2014''; and
            (2) by striking ``December 31, 2013'' and inserting 
        ``December 31, 2014''.
    (b) Clarification on Authority To Use Funds.--Funds appropriated 
under either the first or second sentence of clause (iv) of section 
2(c)(2)(D) of the Railroad Unemployment Insurance Act shall be 
available to cover the cost of additional extended unemployment 
benefits provided under such section 2(c)(2)(D) by reason of the 
amendments made by subsection (a) as well as to cover the cost of such 
benefits provided under such section 2(c)(2)(D), as in effect on the 
day before the date of enactment of this Act.
    (c) Funding for Administration.--Out of any funds in the Treasury 
not otherwise appropriated, there are appropriated to the Railroad 
Retirement Board $250,000 for administrative expenses associated with 
the payment of additional extended unemployment benefits provided under 
section 2(c)(2)(D) of the Railroad Unemployment Insurance Act by reason 
of the amendments made by subsection (a), to remain available until 
expended.

SEC. 6. SUBSEQUENT EMERGENCY UNEMPLOYMENT COMPENSATION AGREEMENTS.

    (a) In General.--Effective as of the date of the enactment of this 
Act, subsection (g) of section 4001 of the Supplemental Appropriations 
Act, 2008 (Public Law 110-252; 26 U.S.C. 3304 note) shall not apply 
with respect to a State whose agreement under title IV of such Act was 
terminated in 2013.
    (b) Permitting a Subsequent Agreement.--Nothing in such title IV 
shall preclude a State described in subsection (a) from entering into a 
subsequent agreement under such title on or after the date of the 
enactment of this Act if the State, taking into account the application 
of subsection (a), would otherwise meet the requirements for an 
agreement under such title.
                                                       Calendar No. 259

113th CONGRESS

  1st Session

                                S. 1797

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL

To provide for the extension of certain unemployment benefits, and for 
                            other purposes.

_______________________________________________________________________

                           December 11, 2013

            Read the second time and placed on the calendar
