
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 2776 Introduced in House (IH)]

113th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                H. R. 2776

      To establish a regulatory review process for rules that the 
Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency plans to propose, 
                        and for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                             July 22, 2013

Mr. Rodney Davis of Illinois (for himself, Mr. Goodlatte, Mr. Peterson, 
Mr. Hudson, Mr. LaMalfa, Mr. Crawford, Mr. Ribble, Mr. Austin Scott of 
  Georgia, Mrs. Roby, Mr. Neugebauer, Mr. Valadao, Mr. Collins of New 
  York, Mr. Gibbs, Mr. Rogers of Alabama, Mr. Yoho, Mr. Schrader, Mr. 
  King of Iowa, Mr. Bishop of Georgia, Mr. Enyart, Mrs. Hartzler, Mr. 
McIntyre, Mr. DesJarlais, Mr. Fincher, Mr. Conaway, and Mr. Thompson of 
 Mississippi) introduced the following bill; which was referred to the 
                        Committee on Agriculture

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
      To establish a regulatory review process for rules that the 
Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency plans to propose, 
                        and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Review EPA's Language on Agriculture 
and Thoroughly Engage with the Farm Act of 2013'' or the ``RELATE with 
the Farm Act of 2013''.

SEC. 2. REGULATORY REVIEW BY THE SECRETARY OF AGRICULTURE.

    (a) Review of Regulatory Agenda.--The Secretary of Agriculture 
shall review publications that may give notice that the Environmental 
Protection Agency is preparing or plans to prepare any guidance, 
policy, memorandum, regulation, or statement of general applicability 
and future effect that may have a significant impact on a substantial 
number of agricultural entities, including--
            (1) any regulatory agenda of the Environmental Protection 
        Agency published pursuant to section 602 of title 5, United 
        States Code;
            (2) any regulatory plan or agenda published by the 
        Environmental Protection Agency or the Office of Management and 
        Budget pursuant to an Executive order, including Executive 
        Order 12866; and
            (3) any other publication issued by the Environmental 
        Protection Agency or the Office of Management and Budget that 
        may reasonably be foreseen to contain notice of plans by the 
        Environmental Protection Agency to prepare any guidance, 
        policy, memorandum, regulation, or statement of general 
        applicability and future effect that may have a significant 
        impact on a substantial number of agricultural entities.
    (b) Information Gathering.--For a publication item reviewed under 
subsection (a) that the Secretary determines may have a significant 
impact on a substantial number of agricultural entities, the Secretary 
shall--
            (1) solicit from the Administrator of the Environmental 
        Protection Agency any information the Administrator may provide 
        to facilitate a review of the publication item;
            (2) utilize the Chief Economist of the Department of 
        Agriculture to produce an economic impact statement for the 
        publication item that contains a detailed estimate of potential 
        costs to agricultural entities;
            (3) identify individuals representative of potentially 
        affected agricultural entities for the purpose of obtaining 
        advice and recommendations from such individuals about the 
        potential impacts of the publication item; and
            (4) convene a review panel for analysis of the publication 
        item that includes the Secretary, any full-time Federal 
        employee of the Department of Agriculture appointed to the 
        panel by the Secretary, and any employee of the Environmental 
        Protection Agency or the Office of Information and Regulatory 
        Affairs within the Office of Management and Budget that accepts 
        an invitation from the Secretary to participate in the panel.
    (c) Duties of the Review Panel.--A review panel convened for a 
publication item under subsection (b)(4) shall--
            (1) review any information or material obtained by the 
        Secretary and prepared in connection with the publication item, 
        including any draft proposed guidance, policy, memorandum, 
        regulation, or statement of general applicability and future 
        effect;
            (2) collect advice and recommendations from agricultural 
        entity representatives identified by the Administrator after 
        consultation with the Secretary;
            (3) compile and analyze such advice and recommendations; 
        and
            (4) make recommendations to the Secretary based on the 
        information gathered by the review panel or provided by 
        agricultural entity representatives.
    (d) Comments.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 60 days after the date the 
        Secretary convenes a review panel pursuant to subsection 
        (b)(4), the Secretary shall submit to the Administrator 
        comments on the planned or proposed guidance, policy, 
        memorandum, regulation, or statement of general applicability 
        and future effect for consideration and inclusion in any 
        related administrative record, including--
                    (A) a report by the Secretary on the concerns of 
                agricultural entities;
                    (B) the findings of the review panel;
                    (C) the findings of the Secretary, including any 
                adopted findings of the review panel; and
                    (D) recommendations of the Secretary.
            (2) Publication.--The Secretary shall publish the comments 
        in the Federal Register and make the comments available to the 
        public on the public Internet website of the Department of 
        Agriculture.
    (e) Waivers.--The Secretary may waive initiation of the review 
panel under subsection (b)(4) as the Secretary determines appropriate.
    (f) Definition of Agricultural Entity.--In this section, the term 
``agricultural entity'' means any entity involved in or related to 
agricultural enterprise, including enterprises that are engaged in the 
business of production of food and fiber, ranching and raising of 
livestock, aquaculture, and all other farming and agricultural related 
industries.
                                 <all>
