
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 4882 Introduced in House (IH)]

113th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                H. R. 4882

To achieve operational control of the international border between the 
   United States and Mexico through the deployment of members of the 
   National Guard in support of the United States Customs and Border 
                  Protection, and for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                             June 17, 2014

Mr. Schweikert introduced the following bill; which was referred to the 
                      Committee on Armed Services

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
To achieve operational control of the international border between the 
   United States and Mexico through the deployment of members of the 
   National Guard in support of the United States Customs and Border 
                  Protection, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Southwest Border Protection Act of 
2014''.

SEC. 2. ACTIVATION AND DEPLOYMENT OF MEMBERS OF THE NATIONAL GUARD TO 
              SUPPORT DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY BORDER CONTROL 
              ACTIVITIES ALONG INTERNATIONAL BORDER BETWEEN THE UNITED 
              STATES AND MEXICO.

    (a) Expanded Deployment of National Guard.--At the request of a 
Governor of a State that shares a portion of the international border 
between the United States and Mexico, the Secretary of Defense shall 
order to active duty, and provide for the deployment of, members of the 
National Guard along such border to assist United States Customs and 
Border Protection in achieving operational control of such border.
    (b) Number of Guardsmen Deployed.--At least 10,000 members of the 
National Guard shall be ordered to active duty and deployed under the 
authority of this section along the international border between the 
United States and Mexico. Members ordered to active duty and deployed 
under the authority of this section shall be in addition to the number 
of members of the National Guard so deployed along such border as of 
the date of the enactment of this Act.
    (c) Duration.--The deployment of members of the National Guard 
under the authority of this section in a State that shares a portion of 
the international border between the United States and Mexico shall 
continue until the earlier of the following:
            (1) The date on which the Secretary of Homeland Security 
        certifies that the Federal Government has achieved operational 
        control of such border.
            (2) The date on which the Governor of the State withdraws 
        the request made under subsection (a).
    (d) Exemption From End Strengths and Other Limitations.--Members of 
the National Guard deployed under the authority of this section shall 
not be counted toward--
            (1) any limits on end strength; or
            (2) limits on the number of National Guard personnel that 
        may be placed on active duty for operational support.
    (e) Operational Control Defined.--In this section, the term 
``operational control'' has the meaning given that term in section 2(b) 
of the Secure Fence Act of 2006 (Public Law 109-367; 8 U.S.C. 1701 
note).
                                 <all>
