
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 1776 Introduced in House (IH)]

113th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                H. R. 1776

To establish the Clear Creek National Recreation Area in San Benito and 
  Fresno Counties, to designate the Joaquin Rocks Wilderness in such 
 counties, to designate additional components of the national wild and 
             scenic rivers system, and for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                             April 26, 2013

  Mr. Farr (for himself, Mr. Valadao, and Mr. Denham) introduced the 
    following bill; which was referred to the Committee on Natural 
                               Resources

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
To establish the Clear Creek National Recreation Area in San Benito and 
  Fresno Counties, to designate the Joaquin Rocks Wilderness in such 
 counties, to designate additional components of the national wild and 
             scenic rivers system, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Clear Creek National Recreation Area 
and Conservation Act''.

SEC. 2. DEFINITIONS.

    In this Act:
            (1) Management plan.--The term ``management plan'' means 
        the Plan for the Recreation Area prepared under section 4(c).
            (2) Recreation area.--The term ``Recreation Area'' means 
        the Clear Creek National Recreation Area.
            (3) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary 
        of the Interior.
            (4) State.--The term ``State'' means the State of 
        California.

SEC. 3. ESTABLISHMENT OF CLEAR CREEK NATIONAL RECREATION AREA.

    (a) In General.--To promote environmentally responsible high-
quality motorized and non-motorized trail based recreation, including 
off-highway vehicle use, scenic touring, access for hunting and gem 
collecting, while protecting ecological, geological, scenic, cultural, 
and historic resources, fish and wildlife values, and other resources 
of the landscape, there is established the Clear Creek National 
Recreation Area in the State, to be managed by the Secretary.
    (b) Boundaries.--The Recreation Area shall consist of approximately 
75,000 acres of Federal land in San Benito County and Fresno County, 
California, as generally depicted on the map entitled ``Clear Creek 
National Recreation Area'' and dated July 30, 2012.
    (c) Map.--
            (1) In general.--As soon as practicable, after the date of 
        the enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall submit a map and 
        legal description of the Recreation Area to--
                    (A) the Committee on Natural Resources of the House 
                of Representatives; and
                    (B) the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources 
                of the Senate.
            (2) Availability.--Copies of the map submitted under 
        paragraph (1) shall be on file and available for public 
        inspection in--
                    (A) the Office of the Director of the Bureau of 
                Land Management; and
                    (B) the appropriate office of the Bureau of Land 
                Management in California.

SEC. 4. MANAGEMENT.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary shall manage the Recreation Area to 
further the purposes described in section 3(a), in accordance with--
            (1) this Act;
            (2) the Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43 
        U.S.C. 1701 et seq.); and
            (3) any other applicable law.
    (b) Uses.--The Secretary shall--
            (1) allow hiking, camping, hunting, gem collecting, and 
        sightseeing and the use of motorized vehicles, mountain bikes, 
        and horses on designated roads, trails, and areas;
            (2) issue special recreation permits for motorized and non-
        motorized events; and
            (3) reopen the Clear Creek Management Area to the uses 
        described in this subsection as soon as practicable following 
        the enactment of this Act and in accordance with the management 
        guidelines outlined in this Act and other applicable law.
    (c) Interim Management Plan.--The Secretary shall use the 2005 
Clear Creek Management Area Travel Management Plan as modified by this 
Act, or by the Secretary to incorporate natural resource protection 
information not available in 2005, as the basis of an interim 
management plan to govern motorized recreation within the Recreation 
Area pending the completion of the long-term management plan required 
in subsection (d).
    (d) Permanent Management Plan.--Not later than 2 years after the 
date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall create a 
comprehensive management plan for the Clear Creek Recreation Area 
that--
            (1) shall describe the appropriate uses and management of 
        the Recreation Area in accordance with this Act;
            (2) shall be prepared in consultation with--
                    (A) appropriate Federal, State, and local agencies 
                (including San Benito, Monterey, and Fresno Counties);
                    (B) adjacent land owners; and
                    (C) other stakeholders (including conservation and 
                recreational organizations);
            (3) shall include a hazards education program to inform 
        people entering the Recreation Area of the asbestos related 
        risks associated with various activities within the Recreation 
        Area, including, but not limited to, off-highway vehicle 
        recreation;
            (4) shall include a user fee program for motorized vehicle 
        use within the Recreational Area and guidelines for the use of 
        the funds collected for the management and improvement of the 
        Recreation Area;
            (5) may incorporate any appropriate decisions, as 
        determined by the Secretary, in accordance with this Act, that 
        are contained in any management or activity plan for the area 
        completed before the date of the enactment of this Act;
            (6) may incorporate appropriate wildlife habitat management 
        plans or other plans prepared for the land within or adjacent 
        to the Recreation Area before the date of the enactment of this 
        Act, in accordance with this Act;
            (7) may use information developed under any studies of land 
        within or adjacent to the Recreation Area carried out before 
        the date of enactment of this Act; and
            (8) may include cooperative agreements with State or local 
        government agencies to manage all or a portion of the 
        recreational activities within the Recreation Area in 
        accordance with an approved management plan and the 
        requirements of this Act.
    (e) Acquisition of Property.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary may acquire land adjacent to 
        the National Recreation Area by purchase from willing sellers, 
        donation, or exchange.
            (2) Management.--Any land acquired under paragraph (1) 
        shall be managed in accordance with--
                    (A) the Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 
                1976 (43 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.);
                    (B) this Act; and
                    (C) any other applicable law (including 
                regulations).
            (3) Improved access.--The Secretary may acquire by purchase 
        from willing sellers, donation, exchange, or easement, land, or 
        interest in land to improve public safety in providing access 
        to the Recreation Area.
    (f) Private Property.--
            (1) Access to private property.--
                    (A) In general.--The Secretary shall provide 
                landowners adequate access to inholdings within the 
                Recreation Area.
                    (B) Inholdings.--For access purposes, private land 
                adjacent to the Recreation Area to which there is no 
                other practicable access except through the Recreation 
                Area shall be managed as an inholding.
            (2) Use of private property.--Nothing in this Act affects 
        the ownership, management, or other rights relating to any non-
        Federal land (including any interest in any non-Federal land).
            (3) Buffer zones.--Nothing in this Act creates a protective 
        perimeter or buffer zone around the Recreation Area.
            (4) Valid rights.--Nothing in this Act affects any 
        easements, rights-of-way, and other valid rights in existence 
        on the date of the enactment of this Act.
    (g) Water Right Exclusion.--Nothing in this Act--
            (1) shall constitute or be construed to constitute either 
        an express or implied reservation by the United States of any 
        water or water rights with respect to the Recreation Area; or
            (2) shall affect any water rights existing on the date of 
        the enactment of this Act.
    (h) Hunting and Fishing.--Nothing in this Act--
            (1) limits hunting or fishing; or
            (2) affects the authority, jurisdiction, or responsibility 
        of the State to manage, control, or regulate fish and resident 
        wildlife under State law (including regulations), including the 
        regulation of hunting or fishing on public land managed by the 
        Bureau of Land Management.
    (i) Motorized Vehicles.--Except in cases in which motorized 
vehicles are needed for administrative purposes or to respond to an 
emergency, the use of motorized vehicles on public land in the 
Recreation Area shall be permitted only on roads, trails, and areas 
designated by the management plan for the use by motorized vehicles.
    (j) Grazing.--In the Recreation Area, the grazing of livestock in 
areas in which grazing is allowed as of the date of the enactment of 
this Act shall be allowed to continue, consistent with--
            (1) this Act;
            (2) the Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43 
        U.S.C. 1701 et seq.); and
            (3) any regulations promulgated by the Secretary, acting 
        through the Director of the Bureau of Land Management.
    (k) Withdrawal.--Subject to valid existing rights, all Federal land 
within the Recreation Area is withdrawn from--
            (1) all forms of entry, appropriation, and disposal under 
        the public land laws;
            (2) location, entry, and patenting under the mining laws; 
        and
            (3) operation of the mineral leasing, mineral materials, 
        and geothermal leasing laws.
    (l) Fees.--Amounts received by the Secretary under the fee 
structure required by subsection (c)(3)(G) shall be--
            (1) deposited in a special account in the Treasury of the 
        United States; and
            (2) made available until expended, without further 
        appropriation, to the Secretary for use in the Recreation Area.
    (m) Risk Standard.--The National Oil and Hazardous Substances 
Pollution Contingency Plan (40 C.F.R. 300), published pursuant to 
section 105 of the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, 
and Liability Act of 1980 (42 U.S.C. 9605), shall not apply to the 
Secretary's management of asbestos exposure risks faced by the public 
when recreating within the Clear Creek Recreation Area described in 
section 3(b).

SEC. 5. JOAQUIN ROCKS WILDERNESS.

    In accordance with the Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1131 et seq.), the 
approximately 21,000 acres of Federal lands located in Fresno County 
and San Benito County, California, and generally depicted on a map 
entitled ``Proposed Joaquin Rocks Wilderness'' and dated April 16, 
2013, is designated as wilderness and as a component of the National 
Wilderness Preservation System and shall be known as the ``Joaquin 
Rocks Wilderness''.

SEC. 6. CLEAR CREEK MANAGEMENT AREA WILD AND SCENIC RIVERS.

    Section 3(a) of the Wild and Scenic Rivers Act (16 U.S.C. 1274(a)) 
is amended by adding at the end the following paragraphs:
            ``(__) Larious canyon.--The approximately 5.25 miles of 
        Larious Canyon Creek from its source near Idria Peak in Section 
        6, R12E, T18S, to the boundary of the Clear Creek Special 
        Recreation Management Area in Section 23, R11E, T17S.
            ``(__) San carlos creek.--The approximately 5.51 miles of 
        the East Fork San Carlos Creek from its source near San Benito 
        Mountain in Section 10, R12E, T18S, to the boundary of the 
        Clear Creek Special Recreation Management Area in Section 22, 
        R12E, T17S.
            ``(__) Cantua creek.--The approximately 7.68 miles of 
        Cantua Creek from its source north of Santa Rita Peak in 
        Section 24, R12E, T18S, to the public land boundary in Section 
        3, R13E, T18S.
            ``(__) Picacho creek.--The approximately 2.65 miles of 
        Picacho Creek, from its source spring in Section 20, R12E, 
        T18S, to its confluence with the San Benito River.
            ``(__) White creek and tributaries.--
                    ``(A) The approximately 5.37 miles of White Creek, 
                from its source in Section 36, R12E, T18S, to the 
                boundary of the Clear Creek Special Recreation 
                Management Area in Section 17, R13E, T19S.
                    ``(B) The approximately 2.29 miles of the unnamed 
                tributary of White Creek from its source just south of 
                Spanish Lake in Section 29, R13E, T18S, to its 
                confluence with White Creek.
                    ``(C) The approximately 2.45 miles of the unnamed 
                tributary of White Creek from its source in Section 33, 
                R13E, T18S, to its confluence with White Creek.''.
                                 <all>
