
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[S. 1283 Placed on Calendar Senate (PCS)]

                                                       Calendar No. 127
113th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                S. 1283

                          [Report No. 113-70]

 Making appropriations for the Legislative Branch for the fiscal year 
           ending September 30, 2014, and for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                             July 11, 2013

   Mrs. Shaheen, from the Committee on Appropriations, reported the 
    following original bill; which was read twice and placed on the 
                                calendar

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
 Making appropriations for the Legislative Branch for the fiscal year 
           ending September 30, 2014, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled, That the following sums 
are appropriated, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise 
appropriated, for the Legislative Branch for the fiscal year ending 
September 30, 2014, and for other purposes, namely:

                                TITLE I

                           LEGISLATIVE BRANCH

                                 SENATE

      Payment to Widows and Heirs of Deceased Members of Congress

    For a payment to Bonnie Englebardt Lautenberg, widow of Frank R. 
Lautenberg, late a Senator from New Jersey, $174,000.

                           Expense Allowances

    For expense allowances of the Vice President, $18,760; the 
President Pro Tempore of the Senate, $37,520; Majority Leader of the 
Senate, $39,920; Minority Leader of the Senate, $39,920; Majority Whip 
of the Senate, $9,980; Minority Whip of the Senate, $9,980; Chairmen of 
the Majority and Minority Conference Committees, $4,690 for each 
Chairman; and Chairmen of the Majority and Minority Policy Committees, 
$4,690 for each Chairman; in all, $174,840.

    Representation Allowances for the Majority and Minority Leaders

    For representation allowances of the Majority and Minority Leaders 
of the Senate, $14,070 for each such Leader; in all, $28,140.

                    Salaries, Officers and Employees

    For compensation of officers, employees, and others as authorized 
by law, including agency contributions, $182,452,812, which shall be 
paid from this appropriation without regard to the following 
limitations:

                      office of the vice president

    For the Office of the Vice President, $2,393,248.

                  office of the president pro tempore

    For the Office of the President Pro Tempore, $715,466.

              offices of the majority and minority leaders

    For Offices of the Majority and Minority Leaders, $5,201,576.

               offices of the majority and minority whips

    For Offices of the Majority and Minority Whips, $3,321,424.

                      committee on appropriations

    For salaries of the Committee on Appropriations, $15,064,000.

                         conference committees

    For the Conference of the Majority and the Conference of the 
Minority, at rates of compensation to be fixed by the Chairman of each 
such committee, $1,639,000 for each such committee; in all, $3,278,000.

 offices of the secretaries of the conference of the majority and the 
                       conference of the minority

    For Offices of the Secretaries of the Conference of the Majority 
and the Conference of the Minority, $805,402.

                           policy committees

    For salaries of the Majority Policy Committee and the Minority 
Policy Committee, $1,673,905 for each such committee; in all, 
$3,347,810.

                         office of the chaplain

    For Office of the Chaplain, $410,886.

                        office of the secretary

    For Office of the Secretary, $24,524,000.

             office of the sergeant at arms and doorkeeper

    For Office of the Sergeant at Arms and Doorkeeper, $72,800,000.

        offices of the secretaries for the majority and minority

    For Offices of the Secretary for the Majority and the Secretary for 
the Minority, $1,740,000.

               agency contributions and related expenses

    For agency contributions for employee benefits, as authorized by 
law, and related expenses, $48,851,000. 

            Office of the Legislative Counsel of the Senate

    For salaries and expenses of the Office of the Legislative Counsel 
of the Senate, $5,192,000.

                     Office of Senate Legal Counsel

    For salaries and expenses of the Office of Senate Legal Counsel, 
$1,109,000.

Expense Allowances of the Secretary of the Senate, Sergeant at Arms and 
Doorkeeper of the Senate, and Secretaries for the Majority and Minority 
                             of the Senate

    For expense allowances of the Secretary of the Senate, $7,110; 
Sergeant at Arms and Doorkeeper of the Senate, $7,110; Secretary for 
the Majority of the Senate, $7,110; Secretary for the Minority of the 
Senate, $7,110; in all, $28,440.

                   Contingent Expenses of the Senate

                      inquiries and investigations

    For expenses of inquiries and investigations ordered by the Senate, 
or conducted under paragraph 1 of rule XXVI of the Standing Rules of 
the Senate, section 112 of the Supplemental Appropriations and 
Rescission Act, 1980 (Public Law 96-304), and Senate Resolution 281, 
96th Congress, agreed to March 11, 1980, $134,000,000, of which 
$26,650,000 shall remain available until September 30, 2016.

expenses of the united states senate caucus on international narcotics 
                                control

    For expenses of the United States Senate Caucus on International 
Narcotics Control, $493,822.

                        secretary of the senate

    For expenses of the Office of the Secretary of the Senate, 
$6,250,000 of which $4,350,000 shall remain available until September 
30, 2017.

             sergeant at arms and doorkeeper of the senate

    For expenses of the Office of the Sergeant at Arms and Doorkeeper 
of the Senate, $128,210,000, which shall remain available until 
September 30, 2018.

                          miscellaneous items

    For miscellaneous items, $19,400,000, which shall remain available 
until September 30, 2016.

        senators' official personnel and office expense account

    For Senators' Official Personnel and Office Expense Account, 
$394,202,000 of which $19,109,214 shall remain available until 
September 30, 2016.

                          official mail costs

    For expenses necessary for official mail costs of the Senate, 
$281,000.

                        Administrative Provision

                     workers compensation payments

    Sec. 1. (a) In General.--Available balances of expired 
appropriations which are subject to disbursement by the Secretary of 
the Senate shall be available to the Secretary of the Senate to make 
the deposit to the credit of the Employees' Compensation Fund required 
by section 8147(b) of title 5, United States Code.
    (b) Effective Date.--This section shall apply with respect to 
appropriations for fiscal year 2014, and each fiscal year thereafter.

                              JOINT ITEMS

    For Joint Committees, as follows:

                        Joint Economic Committee

    For salaries and expenses of the Joint Economic Committee, 
$4,203,000, to be disbursed by the Secretary of the Senate.

                      Joint Committee on Taxation

    For salaries and expenses of the Joint Committee on Taxation, 
$10,004,000, to be disbursed by the Chief Administrative Officer of the 
House of Representatives.

                   Office of the Attending Physician

    For medical supplies, equipment, and contingent expenses of the 
emergency rooms, and for the Attending Physician and his assistants, 
including:
            (1) an allowance of $2,175 per month to the Attending 
        Physician;
            (2) an allowance of $1,300 per month to the Senior Medical 
        Officer;
            (3) an allowance of $725 per month each to three medical 
        officers while on duty in the Office of the Attending 
        Physician;
            (4) an allowance of $725 per month to 2 assistants and $580 
        per month each not to exceed 11 assistants on the basis 
        heretofore provided for such assistants; and
            (5) $2,603,000 for reimbursement to the Department of the 
        Navy for expenses incurred for staff and equipment assigned to 
        the Office of the Attending Physician, which shall be advanced 
        and credited to the applicable appropriation or appropriations 
        from which such salaries, allowances, and other expenses are 
        payable and shall be available for all the purposes thereof, 
        $3,400,000, to be disbursed by the Chief Administrative Officer 
        of the House of Representatives.

             Office of Congressional Accessibility Services

                         salaries and expenses

    For salaries and expenses of the Office of Congressional 
Accessibility Services, $1,363,000, to be disbursed by the Secretary of 
the Senate.

                             CAPITOL POLICE

                                Salaries

    For salaries of employees of the Capitol Police, including 
overtime, hazardous duty pay differential, and Government contributions 
for health, retirement, social security, professional liability 
insurance, and other applicable employee benefits, $281,459,000, of 
which not more than $21,413,795 shall be for overtime, to be disbursed 
by the Chief of the Capitol Police or his designee.

                            General Expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Capitol Police, including motor 
vehicles, communications and other equipment, security equipment and 
installation, uniforms, weapons, supplies, materials, training, medical 
services, forensic services, stenographic services, personal and 
professional services, the employee assistance program, the awards 
program, postage, communication services, travel advances, relocation 
of instructor and liaison personnel for the Federal Law Enforcement 
Training Center, and not more than $5,000 to be expended on the 
certification of the Chief of the Capitol Police in connection with 
official representation and reception expenses, $57,000,000, to be 
disbursed by the Chief of the Capitol Police or his designee:  
Provided, That, notwithstanding any other provision of law, the cost of 
basic training for the Capitol Police at the Federal Law Enforcement 
Training Center for fiscal year 2014 shall be paid by the Secretary of 
Homeland Security from funds available to the Department of Homeland 
Security.

                        Administrative Provision

  authority to transfer amounts between salaries and general expenses

    Sec. 1001.  During fiscal year 2014 and any succeeding fiscal year, 
the Capitol Police may transfer amounts appropriated for the fiscal 
year between the category for salaries and the category for general 
expenses, upon the approval of the Committees on Appropriations of the 
House of Representatives and Senate.

           funds available for workers compensation payments

    Sec. 1002. (a) In General.--Available balances of expired United 
States Capitol Police appropriations shall be available to the Capitol 
Police to make the deposit to the credit of the Employees' Compensation 
Fund required by section 8147(b) of title 5, United States Code.
    (b) Conforming Amendment.--Section 1018 of the Legislative Branch 
Appropriations Act, 2003 (2 U.S.C. 1907) is amended by striking 
subsection (f).
    (c) Effective Date.--This section shall apply with respect to 
appropriations for fiscal year 2014 and each fiscal year thereafter.

                          OFFICE OF COMPLIANCE

                         Salaries and Expenses

    For salaries and expenses of the Office of Compliance, as 
authorized by section 305 of the Congressional Accountability Act of 
1995 (2 U.S.C. 1385), $3,868,000, of which $720,000 shall remain 
available until September 30, 2015:  Provided, That not more than $500 
may be expended on the certification of the Executive Director of the 
Office of Compliance in connection with official representation and 
reception expenses.

                      CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE

                         Salaries and Expenses

    For salaries and expenses necessary for operation of the 
Congressional Budget Office, including not more than $6,000 to be 
expended on the certification of the Director of the Congressional 
Budget Office in connection with official representation and reception 
expenses, $45,700,000.

                        ARCHITECT OF THE CAPITOL

                         General Administration

    For salaries for the Architect of the Capitol, and other personal 
services, at rates of pay provided by law; for surveys and studies in 
connection with activities under the care of the Architect of the 
Capitol; for all necessary expenses for the general and administrative 
support of the operations under the Architect of the Capitol including 
the Botanic Garden; electrical substations of the Capitol, Senate and 
House office buildings, and other facilities under the jurisdiction of 
the Architect of the Capitol; including furnishings and office 
equipment; including not more than $5,000 for official reception and 
representation expenses, to be expended as the Architect of the Capitol 
may approve; for purchase or exchange, maintenance, and operation of a 
passenger motor vehicle, $94,400,000, of which $599,000 shall remain 
available until September 30, 2018.

                            Capitol Building

    For all necessary expenses for the maintenance, care and operation 
of the Capitol, $55,931,000, of which $14,900,000 shall remain 
available until September 30, 2018, and of which $15,940,000 shall 
remain available until expended solely for expenses related to 
rehabilitation of the U.S. Capitol Dome.

                            Capitol Grounds

    For all necessary expenses for care and improvement of grounds 
surrounding the Capitol, the Senate and House office buildings, and the 
Capitol Power Plant, $12,384,000, of which $2,000,000 shall remain 
available until September 30, 2018.

                        Senate Office Buildings

    For all necessary expenses for the maintenance, care and operation 
of Senate office buildings; and furniture and furnishings to be 
expended under the control and supervision of the Architect of the 
Capitol, $76,404,000, of which $17,539,000 shall remain available until 
September 30, 2018.

                          Capitol Power Plant

    For all necessary expenses for the maintenance, care and operation 
of the Capitol Power Plant; lighting, heating, power (including the 
purchase of electrical energy) and water and sewer services for the 
Capitol, Senate and House office buildings, Library of Congress 
buildings, and the grounds about the same, Botanic Garden, Senate 
garage, and air conditioning refrigeration not supplied from plants in 
any of such buildings; heating the Government Printing Office and 
Washington City Post Office, and heating and chilled water for air 
conditioning for the Supreme Court Building, the Union Station complex, 
the Thurgood Marshall Federal Judiciary Building and the Folger 
Shakespeare Library, expenses for which shall be advanced or reimbursed 
upon request of the Architect of the Capitol and amounts so received 
shall be deposited into the Treasury to the credit of this 
appropriation, $110,827,000, of which $24,300,000 shall remain 
available until September 30, 2018:  Provided, That not more than 
$9,000,000 of the funds credited or to be reimbursed to this 
appropriation as herein provided shall be available for obligation 
during fiscal year 2014.

                     Library Buildings and Grounds

    For all necessary expenses for the mechanical and structural 
maintenance, care and operation of the Library buildings and grounds, 
$64,164,000 of which $38,474,000 shall remain available until September 
30, 2018.

             Capitol Police Buildings, Grounds and Security

    For all necessary expenses for the maintenance, care and operation 
of buildings, grounds and security enhancements of the United States 
Capitol Police, wherever located, the Alternate Computer Facility, and 
AOC security operations, $21,341,000, of which $3,314,000 shall remain 
available until September 30, 2018.

                             Botanic Garden

    For all necessary expenses for the maintenance, care and operation 
of the Botanic Garden and the nurseries, buildings, grounds, and 
collections; and purchase and exchange, maintenance, repair, and 
operation of a passenger motor vehicle; all under the direction of the 
Joint Committee on the Library, $12,136,000, of which $2,082,000 shall 
remain available until September 30, 2018:  Provided, That of the 
amount made available under this heading, the Architect of the Capitol 
may obligate and expend such sums as may be necessary for the 
maintenance, care and operation of the National Garden established 
under section 307E of the Legislative Branch Appropriations Act, 1989 
(2 U.S.C. 2146), upon vouchers approved by the Architect of the Capitol 
or a duly authorized designee.

                         Capitol Visitor Center

    For all necessary expenses for the operation of the Capitol Visitor 
Center, $21,276,000.

                        Administrative Provision

              collection and sale of recyclable materials

    Sec. 1101.  Section 1101(c) of Legislative Branch Appropriations 
Act, 2009 (division G of Public Law 111-8, 123 Stat. 823, 2 U.S.C. 1811 
note) is amended by striking ``each of the fiscal years 2009 through 
2013'' and inserting ``fiscal year 2009 and each fiscal year 
thereafter''.

                          LIBRARY OF CONGRESS

                         Salaries and Expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Library of Congress not otherwise 
provided for, including development and maintenance of the Library's 
catalogs; custody and custodial care of the Library buildings; special 
clothing; cleaning, laundering and repair of uniforms; preservation of 
motion pictures in the custody of the Library; operation and 
maintenance of the American Folklife Center in the Library; activities 
under the Civil Rights History Project Act of 2009; preparation and 
distribution of catalog records and other publications of the Library; 
hire or purchase of one passenger motor vehicle; and expenses of the 
Library of Congress Trust Fund Board not properly chargeable to the 
income of any trust fund held by the Board, $427,988,000, of which not 
more than $6,000,000 shall be derived from collections credited to this 
appropriation during fiscal year 2014, and shall remain available until 
expended, under the Act of June 28, 1902 (chapter 1301; 32 Stat. 480; 2 
U.S.C. 150) and not more than $350,000 shall be derived from 
collections during fiscal year 2014 and shall remain available until 
expended for the development and maintenance of an international legal 
information database and activities related thereto:  Provided, That 
the Library of Congress may not obligate or expend any funds derived 
from collections under the Act of June 28, 1902, in excess of the 
amount authorized for obligation or expenditure in appropriations Acts: 
 Provided further, That the total amount available for obligation shall 
be reduced by the amount by which collections are less than $6,350,000: 
 Provided further, That of the total amount appropriated, not more than 
$12,000 may be expended, on the certification of the Librarian of 
Congress, in connection with official representation and reception 
expenses for the Overseas Field Offices:  Provided further, That of the 
total amount appropriated, $7,119,000 shall remain available until 
expended for the digital collections and educational curricula program.

                            Copyright Office

                         Salaries and Expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Copyright Office, $52,640,000, of 
which not more than $28,029,000, to remain available until expended, 
shall be derived from collections credited to this appropriation during 
fiscal year 2014 under section 708(d) of title 17, United States Code:  
Provided, That the Copyright Office may not obligate or expend any 
funds derived from collections under such section, in excess of the 
amount authorized for obligation or expenditure in appropriations Acts: 
 Provided further, That not more than $5,590,000 shall be derived from 
collections during fiscal year 2014 under sections 111(d)(2), 
119(b)(2), 803(e), 1005, and 1316 of such title:  Provided further, 
That the total amount available for obligation shall be reduced by the 
amount by which collections are less than $33,619,000:  Provided 
further, That not more than $100,000 of the amount appropriated is 
available for the maintenance of an ``International Copyright 
Institute'' in the Copyright Office of the Library of Congress for the 
purpose of training nationals of developing countries in intellectual 
property laws and policies:  Provided further, That not more than 
$6,500 may be expended, on the certification of the Librarian of 
Congress, in connection with official representation and reception 
expenses for activities of the International Copyright Institute and 
for copyright delegations, visitors, and seminars:  Provided further, 
That notwithstanding any provision of chapter 8 of title 17, United 
States Code, any amounts made available under this heading which are 
attributable to royalty fees and payments received by the Copyright 
Office pursuant to sections 111, 119, and chapter 10 of such title may 
be used for the costs incurred in the administration of the Copyright 
Royalty Judges program, with the exception of the costs of salaries and 
benefits for the Copyright Royalty Judges and staff under section 
802(e).

                     Congressional Research Service

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of section 203 
of the Legislative Reorganization Act of 1946 (2 U.S.C. 166) and to 
revise and extend the Annotated Constitution of the United States of 
America, $108,841,000:  Provided, That no part of such amount may be 
used to pay any salary or expense in connection with any publication, 
or preparation of material therefor (except the Digest of Public 
General Bills), to be issued by the Library of Congress unless such 
publication has obtained prior approval of either the Committee on 
House Administration of the House of Representatives or the Committee 
on Rules and Administration of the Senate.

             Books for the Blind and Physically Handicapped

                         salaries and expenses

    For salaries and expenses to carry out the Act of March 3, 1931 
(chapter 400; 46 Stat. 1487; 2 U.S.C. 135a), $51,400,000:  Provided, 
That of the total amount appropriated, $650,000 shall be available to 
contract to provide newspapers to blind and physically handicapped 
residents at no cost to the individual.

                       Administrative Provisions

               reimbursable and revolving fund activities

    Sec. 1201. (a) In General.--For fiscal year 2014, the obligational 
authority of the Library of Congress for the activities described in 
subsection (b) may not exceed $185,579,000.
    (b) Activities.--The activities referred to in subsection (a) are 
reimbursable and revolving fund activities that are funded from sources 
other than appropriations to the Library in appropriations Acts for the 
legislative branch.
    (c) Transfer of Funds.--During fiscal year 2014, the Librarian of 
Congress may temporarily transfer funds appropriated in this Act, under 
the heading ``Library of Congress'', under the subheading ``Salaries 
and Expenses'', to the revolving fund for the FEDLINK Program and the 
Federal Research Program established under section 103 of the Library 
of Congress Fiscal Operations Improvement Act of 2000 (Public Law 106-
481; 2 U.S.C. 182c):  Provided, That the total amount of such transfers 
may not exceed $1,900,000:  Provided further, That the appropriate 
revolving fund account shall reimburse the Library for any amounts 
transferred to it before the period of availability of the Library 
appropriation expires.

                           transfer authority

    Sec. 1202. (a) In General.--Effective in fiscal year 2014 and each 
succeeding fiscal year, amounts appropriated for the Library of 
Congress may be transferred during the fiscal year between any of the 
headings under the heading ``Library of Congress'' upon the approval of 
the Committees on Appropriations of the Senate and the House of 
Representatives.
    (b) Limitation.--Not more than 10 percent of the total amount of 
funds appropriated to the account under any heading under the heading 
``Library of Congress'' in the fiscal year may be transferred from that 
account by all transfers made under subsection (a).

                       GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE

                   Congressional Printing and Binding

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For authorized printing and binding for the Congress and the 
distribution of Congressional information in any format; printing and 
binding for the Architect of the Capitol; expenses necessary for 
preparing the semimonthly and session index to the Congressional 
Record, as authorized by law (section 902 of title 44, United States 
Code); printing and binding of Government publications authorized by 
law to be distributed to Members of Congress; and printing, binding, 
and distribution of Government publications authorized by law to be 
distributed without charge to the recipient, $79,736,000:  Provided, 
That this appropriation shall not be available for paper copies of the 
permanent edition of the Congressional Record for individual 
Representatives, Resident Commissioners or Delegates authorized under 
section 906 of title 44, United States Code:  Provided further, That 
this appropriation shall be available for the payment of obligations 
incurred under the appropriations for similar purposes for preceding 
fiscal years:  Provided further, That notwithstanding the 2-year 
limitation under section 718 of title 44, United States Code, none of 
the funds appropriated or made available under this Act or any other 
Act for printing and binding and related services provided to Congress 
under chapter 7 of title 44, United States Code, may be expended to 
print a document, report, or publication after the 27-month period 
beginning on the date that such document, report, or publication is 
authorized by Congress to be printed, unless Congress reauthorizes such 
printing in accordance with section 718 of title 44, United States 
Code:  Provided further, That any unobligated or unexpended balances in 
this account or accounts for similar purposes for preceding fiscal 
years may be transferred to the Government Printing Office revolving 
fund for carrying out the purposes of this heading, subject to the 
approval of the Committees on Appropriations of the House of 
Representatives and Senate.

                 Office of Superintendent of Documents

                         salaries and expenses

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For expenses of the Office of Superintendent of Documents necessary 
to provide for the cataloging and indexing of Government publications 
and their distribution to the public, Members of Congress, other 
Government agencies, and designated depository and international 
exchange libraries as authorized by law, $31,500,000:  Provided, That 
amounts of not more than $2,000,000 from current year appropriations 
are authorized for producing and disseminating congressional serial 
sets and other related publications for fiscal years 2012 and 2013 to 
depository and other designated libraries:  Provided further, That any 
unobligated or unexpended balances in this account or accounts for 
similar purposes for preceding fiscal years may be transferred to the 
Government Printing Office revolving fund for carrying out the purposes 
of this heading, subject to the approval of the Committees on 
Appropriations of the House of Representatives and Senate.

               Government Printing Office Revolving Fund

    For payment to the Government Printing Office Revolving Fund, 
$8,064,000 for information technology development:  Provided, That the 
Government Printing Office is hereby authorized to make such 
expenditures, within the limits of funds available and in accordance 
with law, and to make such contracts and commitments without regard to 
fiscal year limitations as provided by section 9104 of title 31, United 
States Code, as may be necessary in carrying out the programs and 
purposes set forth in the budget for the current fiscal year for the 
Government Printing Office Revolving Fund:  Provided further, That not 
more than $7,500 may be expended on the certification of the Public 
Printer in connection with official representation and reception 
expenses:  Provided further, That the revolving fund shall be available 
for the hire or purchase of not more than 12 passenger motor vehicles:  
Provided further, That expenditures in connection with travel expenses 
of the advisory councils to the Public Printer shall be deemed 
necessary to carry out the provisions of title 44, United States Code:  
Provided further, That the revolving fund shall be available for 
temporary or intermittent services under section 3109(b) of title 5, 
United States Code, but at rates for individuals not more than the 
daily equivalent of the annual rate of basic pay for level V of the 
Executive Schedule under section 5316 of such title:  Provided further, 
That activities financed through the revolving fund may provide 
information in any format:  Provided further, That the revolving fund 
and the funds provided under the headings ``Office of Superintendent of 
Documents'' and ``Salaries and Expenses'' may not be used for 
contracted security services at GPO's passport facility in the District 
of Columbia.

                    GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABILITY OFFICE

                         Salaries and Expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Government Accountability Office, 
including not more than $12,500 to be expended on the certification of 
the Comptroller General of the United States in connection with 
official representation and reception expenses; temporary or 
intermittent services under section 3109(b) of title 5, United States 
Code, but at rates for individuals not more than the daily equivalent 
of the annual rate of basic pay for level IV of the Executive Schedule 
under section 5315 of such title; hire of one passenger motor vehicle; 
advance payments in foreign countries in accordance with section 3324 
of title 31, United States Code; benefits comparable to those payable 
under sections 901(5), (6), and (8) of the Foreign Service Act of 1980 
(22 U.S.C. 4081(5), (6), and (8)); and under regulations prescribed by 
the Comptroller General of the United States, rental of living quarters 
in foreign countries, $505,383,000:  Provided, That in addition, 
$32,368,000 of payments received under sections 782, 3521, and 9105 of 
title 31, United States Code, shall be available without fiscal year 
limitation:  Provided further, That this appropriation and 
appropriations for administrative expenses of any other department or 
agency which is a member of the National Intergovernmental Audit Forum 
or a Regional Intergovernmental Audit Forum shall be available to 
finance an appropriate share of either Forum's costs as determined by 
the respective Forum, including necessary travel expenses of non-
Federal participants:  Provided further, That payments hereunder to the 
Forum may be credited as reimbursements to any appropriation from which 
costs involved are initially financed.

                        Administrative Provision

               electronic system for filing bid protests

    Sec. 1301.  Section 3555(c) of title 31, United States Code, is 
amended--
            (1) by inserting ``(1)'' after ``(c)''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
            ``(2) The Comptroller General may charge and collect fees 
        for filing protests under this subchapter for the purpose of 
        covering the costs of developing, maintaining, and operating an 
        electronic system for filing such protests. The Comptroller 
        General may retain and use such fees immediately and without 
        fiscal year limitation for such purpose.''.

                OPEN WORLD LEADERSHIP CENTER TRUST FUND

    For a payment to the Open World Leadership Center Trust Fund for 
financing activities of the Open World Leadership Center under section 
313 of the Legislative Branch Appropriations Act, 2001 (2 U.S.C. 1151), 
$4,000,000.

   JOHN C. STENNIS CENTER FOR PUBLIC SERVICE TRAINING AND DEVELOPMENT

    For payment to the John C. Stennis Center for Public Service 
Development Trust Fund established under section 116 of the John C. 
Stennis Center for Public Service Training and Development Act (2 
U.S.C. 1105), $430,000.

                                TITLE II

                           GENERAL PROVISIONS

                maintenance and care of private vehicles

    Sec. 201.  No part of the funds appropriated in this Act shall be 
used for the maintenance or care of private vehicles, except for 
emergency assistance and cleaning as may be provided under regulations 
relating to parking facilities for the House of Representatives issued 
by the Committee on House Administration and for the Senate issued by 
the Committee on Rules and Administration.

                         fiscal year limitation

    Sec. 202.  No part of any appropriation contained in this Act shall 
remain available for obligation beyond the current fiscal year unless 
expressly so provided herein.

                 rates of compensation and designation

    Sec. 203.  Whenever in this Act any office or position not 
specifically established by the Legislative Pay Act of 1929 (46 Stat. 
32 et seq.) is appropriated for or the rate of compensation or 
designation of any office or position appropriated for is different 
from that specifically established by such Act, the rate of 
compensation and the designation in this Act shall be the permanent law 
with respect thereto:  Provided, That the provisions in this Act for 
the various items of official expenses of Members, officers, and 
committees of the Senate and House of Representatives, and clerk hire 
for Senators and Members of the House of Representatives shall be the 
permanent law with respect thereto.

                          consulting services

    Sec. 204.  The expenditure of any appropriation under this Act for 
any consulting service through procurement contract, under section 3109 
of title 5, United States Code, shall be limited to those contracts 
where such expenditures are a matter of public record and available for 
public inspection, except where otherwise provided under existing law, 
or under existing Executive order issued under existing law.

                         awards and settlements

    Sec. 205.  Such sums as may be necessary are appropriated to the 
account described in subsection (a) of section 415 of the Congressional 
Accountability Act of 1995 (2 U.S.C. 1415(a)) to pay awards and 
settlements as authorized under such subsection.

                             costs of lbfmc

    Sec. 206.  Amounts available for administrative expenses of any 
legislative branch entity which participates in the Legislative Branch 
Financial Managers Council (LBFMC) established by charter on March 26, 
1996, shall be available to finance an appropriate share of LBFMC costs 
as determined by the LBFMC, except that the total LBFMC costs to be 
shared among all participating legislative branch entities (in such 
allocations among the entities as the entities may determine) may not 
exceed $2,000.

                         landscape maintenance

    Sec. 207.  The Architect of the Capitol, in consultation with the 
District of Columbia, is authorized to maintain and improve the 
landscape features, excluding streets, in the irregular shaped grassy 
areas bounded by Washington Avenue, SW, on the northeast, Second 
Street, SW, on the west, Square 582 on the south, and the beginning of 
the I-395 tunnel on the southeast.

                        limitation on transfers

    Sec. 208.  None of the funds made available in this Act may be 
transferred to any department, agency, or instrumentality of the United 
States Government, except pursuant to a transfer made by, or transfer 
authority provided in, this Act or any other appropriation Act.

                      guided tours of the capitol

    Sec. 209. (a) Except as provided in subsection (b), none of the 
funds made available to the Architect of the Capitol in this Act may be 
used to eliminate or restrict guided tours of the United States Capitol 
which are led by employees and interns of offices of Members of 
Congress and other offices of the House of Representatives and Senate.
    (b) At the direction of the Capitol Police Board, or at the 
direction of the Architect of the Capitol with the approval of the 
Capitol Police Board, guided tours of the United States Capitol which 
are led by employees and interns described in subsection (a) may be 
suspended temporarily or otherwise subject to restriction for security 
or related reasons to the same extent as guided tours of the United 
States Capitol which are led by the Architect of the Capitol.

                      open world leadership center

    Sec. 210. (a) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the 
Librarian of Congress may transfer up to $6,000,000 from the funds 
described in section 1201 of title I of this Act to the Open World 
Leadership Center Trust Fund for use as provided under section 313 of 
the Legislative Branch Appropriations Act, 2001 (2 U.S.C. 1151).
    (b) The Board of Trustees of the Open World Leadership Center may, 
pursuant to its authority under section 313(c)(2) of the Legislative 
Branch Appropriations Act, 2001 (2 U.S.C. 1151(c)(2)), solicit, accept, 
and use donations to the Open World Leadership Center Trust Fund for 
the purpose of reimbursing the funds described in subsection (a) for 
any amounts transferred to the Trust Fund under subsection (a).
    This Act may be cited as the ``Legislative Branch Appropriations 
Act, 2014''.
                                                       Calendar No. 127

113th CONGRESS

  1st Session

                                S. 1283

                          [Report No. 113-70]

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL

 Making appropriations for the Legislative Branch for the fiscal year 
           ending September 30, 2014, and for other purposes.

_______________________________________________________________________

                             July 11, 2013

                 Read twice and placed on the calendar
