
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.J. Res. 37 Introduced in House (IH)]

113th CONGRESS
  1st Session
H. J. RES. 37

    Proposing an amendment to the Constitution of the United States 
   limiting the number of times Senators and Representatives may be 
                                elected.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                             March 18, 2013

    Mr. Ribble introduced the following joint resolution; which was 
               referred to the Committee on the Judiciary

_______________________________________________________________________

                            JOINT RESOLUTION


 
    Proposing an amendment to the Constitution of the United States 
   limiting the number of times Senators and Representatives may be 
                                elected.

    Resolved by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United 
States of America in Congress assembled   (two-thirds of each House 
concurring therein), That the following article is proposed as an 
amendment to the Constitution of the United States, which shall be 
valid to all intents and purposes as part of the Constitution when 
ratified by the legislatures of three-fourths of the several States 
within seven years after the date of its submission for ratification:

                              ``Article--

    ``Section 1. No person shall be elected as a Representative more 
than three times. An election to any part of a term for which some 
other person was elected shall not count in determining the number of 
times a person is elected unless the person serves more than one year 
as a Representative pursuant to that election.
    ``Section 2. No person shall be elected or appointed as a Senator 
more than twice. An election or appointment to any part of a term for 
which some other person was elected shall not count in determining the 
number of times a person is elected or appointed unless the person 
serves more than three years as a Senator pursuant to that election or 
appointment.
    ``Section 3. Only elections or appointments which occur after the 
date of ratification of this article shall count in determining the 
number of times a person is elected or appointed.
    ``Section 4. Any reelection or reappointment of a Senator to the 
office of Senator shall not count in determining the number of times a 
person is elected or appointed if the person was a Senator on the date 
of ratification of this article and has been elected as a Senator every 
term since the date of ratification of this article. Any reelection of 
a Representative to the office of Representative shall not count in 
determining the number of times a person is elected or appointed if the 
person was a Representative on the date of ratification of this article 
and has been elected as a Representative every term since the date of 
ratification of this article.''.
                                 <all>
