
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 3166 Introduced in House (IH)]

113th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                H. R. 3166

    To appropriate such funds as may be necessary to ensure certain 
important functions of the Government continue during a Governmentwide 
                   shutdown, and for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                           September 20, 2013

  Mr. Latham introduced the following bill; which was referred to the 
Committee on Ways and Means, and in addition to the Committees on Armed 
   Services, Energy and Commerce, Agriculture, House Administration, 
Oversight and Government Reform, and Transportation and Infrastructure, 
for a period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case 
for consideration of such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of 
                        the committee concerned

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
    To appropriate such funds as may be necessary to ensure certain 
important functions of the Government continue during a Governmentwide 
                   shutdown, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. EMERGENCY APPROPRIATION OF FUNDS.

    During a Governmentwide shutdown, the Secretary of the Treasury 
shall make available, out of any amounts in the general fund of the 
Treasury not otherwise appropriated, such amounts as are necessary to 
provide for the following:
            (1) Amounts to provide pay and allowances to Members of the 
        Army, Navy, Air Force, Marine Corps, and Coast Guard, including 
        reserve components thereof, who perform active service during 
        the funding gap.
            (2) At the discretion of the Secretary of Defense, amounts 
        to provide pay and allowances to such civilian personnel of the 
        Department of Defense who are providing support to the members 
        of the Armed Forces described in paragraph (1) as the Secretary 
        considers appropriate.
            (3) At the discretion of the Secretary of Defense, amounts 
        to provide pay and allowances to such personnel of contractors 
        of the Department of Defense who are providing direct support 
        to the members of the Armed Forces described in paragraph (1) 
        as the Secretary considers appropriate.
            (4) Amounts necessary to carry out the authority of the 
        Department of the Treasury provided in section 3123 of title 
        31, United States Code, to pay with legal tender the principal 
        and interest on debt held by the public.
            (5) Such amounts as the President certifies to the Congress 
        are necessary to carry out vital national security priorities.
            (6) Amounts necessary to make payments under the Medicare 
        program under title XVIII of the Social Security Act.
            (7) Amounts necessary to make payments under the 
        Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program.
            (8) Such amounts as the President certifies to the Congress 
        are necessary to carry out Government functions necessary for 
        protecting public health and public safety.

SEC. 2. EMERGENCY FUNDS TO ENSURE SOCIAL SECURITY BENEFITS ARE 
              PROVIDED.

    During a Governmentwide shutdown, the Managing Trustee of the Trust 
Funds (as such term is used in section 201(g)(1)(A) of the Social 
Security Act) shall make available to the Commissioner of Social 
Security, out of any or all of the Trust Funds, such amounts as the 
Commissioner determines to be necessary to provide for the 
uninterrupted payment of monthly insurance benefits under title II of 
such Act and payment of benefits under the Supplemental Security Income 
Program under title XVI of such Act.

SEC. 3. PROHIBITION ON CONGRESSIONAL AND PRESIDENTIAL PAY DURING 
              GOVERNMENTWIDE SHUTDOWN.

    (a) In General.--Members of Congress and the President shall not 
receive basic pay during a Governmentwide shutdown.
    (b) Retroactive Pay Prohibited.--No pay forfeited in accordance 
with subsection (a) may be paid retroactively.

SEC. 4. GOVERNMENTWIDE SHUTDOWN DEFINED.

    In this Act, the term ``Governmentwide shutdown'' means any portion 
of a fiscal year during which none of the appropriation bills for the 
fiscal year have become law and an Act or joint resolution making 
continuing appropriations for the fiscal year is not in effect.
                                 <all>
