
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 4506 Introduced in House (IH)]

113th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                H. R. 4506

         For the relief of Antonia Esmeralda Aguilar Belmontes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                             April 28, 2014

 Ms. Lofgren introduced the following bill; which was referred to the 
                       Committee on the Judiciary

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
         For the relief of Antonia Esmeralda Aguilar Belmontes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. PERMANENT RESIDENT STATUS FOR ANTONIA ESMERALDA AGUILAR 
              BELMONTES.

    (a) In General.--Notwithstanding subsections (a) and (b) of section 
201 of the Immigration and Nationality Act, Antonia Esmeralda Aguilar 
Belmontes shall be eligible for issuance of an immigrant visa or for 
adjustment of status to that of an alien lawfully admitted for 
permanent residence upon filing an application for issuance of an 
immigrant visa under section 204 of such Act or for adjustment of 
status to lawful permanent resident.
    (b) Adjustment of Status.--If Antonia Esmeralda Aguilar Belmontes 
enters the United States before the filing deadline specified in 
subsection (c), she shall be considered to have entered and remained 
lawfully and shall, if otherwise eligible, be eligible for adjustment 
of status under section 245 of the Immigration and Nationality Act as 
of the date of the enactment of this Act.
    (c) Deadline for Application and Payment of Fees.--Subsections (a) 
and (b) shall apply only if the application for issuance of an 
immigrant visa or the application for adjustment of status is filed 
with appropriate fees within 2 years after the date of the enactment of 
this Act.
    (d) Reduction of Immigrant Visa Number.--Upon the granting of an 
immigrant visa or permanent residence to Antonia Esmeralda Aguilar 
Belmontes, the Secretary of State shall instruct the proper officer to 
reduce by 1, during the current or next following fiscal year, the 
total number of immigrant visas that are made available to natives of 
the country of the alien's birth under section 203(a) of the 
Immigration and Nationality Act or, if applicable, the total number of 
immigrant visas that are made available to natives of the country of 
the alien's birth under section 202(e) of such Act.
    (e) Denial of Preferential Immigration Treatment for Certain 
Relatives.--The natural parents, brothers, and sisters of Antonia 
Esmeralda Aguilar Belmontes shall not, by virtue of such relationship, 
be accorded any right, privilege, or status under the Immigration and 
Nationality Act.
                                 <all>
