
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 4062 Introduced in House (IH)]

113th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                H. R. 4062

    To amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to extend the income 
exclusion for discharge of qualified principal residence indebtedness, 
   to provide exclusions from income for certain payments under the 
         National Mortgage Settlement, and for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                           February 14, 2014

Mr. McDermott introduced the following bill; which was referred to the 
                      Committee on Ways and Means

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
    To amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to extend the income 
exclusion for discharge of qualified principal residence indebtedness, 
   to provide exclusions from income for certain payments under the 
         National Mortgage Settlement, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Homeowner Tax Fairness Act''.

SEC. 2. EXTENSION OF INCOME EXCLUSION FOR DISCHARGE OF QUALIFIED 
              PRINCIPAL RESIDENCE INDEBTEDNESS.

    (a) In General.--Subparagraph (E) of section 108(a)(1) of the 
Internal Revenue Code of 1986 is amended by striking ``January 1, 
2014'' and inserting ``January 1, 2017''.
    (b) Application to Certain Agreements.--Subparagraph (E) of section 
108(a)(1) of such Code, as amended by subsection (a), is amended by 
inserting before the period the following: ``, or which is discharged 
after such date pursuant to an agreement entered into before such date 
under the programs created pursuant to, or using funds authorized by 
the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008''.
    (c) Effective Date.--
            (1) Subsection (a).--The amendment made by subsection (a) 
        shall apply to discharges in taxable years beginning after 
        December 31, 2013.
            (2) Subsection (b).--The amendment made by subsection (b) 
        shall take effect on the date of the enactment of this Act.

SEC. 3. EXTENSION OF DEDUCTION FOR MORTGAGE INSURANCE PREMIUMS.

    (a) In General.--Subclause (I) of section 163(h)(3)(E)(iv) of the 
Internal Revenue Code of 1986 is amended by striking ``December 31, 
2013'' and inserting ``December 31, 2015''.
    (b) Effective Date.--The amendment made by this section shall apply 
to amounts paid or accrued after December 31, 2013.

SEC. 4. EXCLUSIONS RELATING TO NATIONAL MORTGAGE SETTLEMENT PAYMENTS.

    (a) In General.--Part III of subchapter B of chapter 1 of the 
Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (relating to items specifically excluded 
from gross income) is amended by inserting before section 140 the 
following new section:

``SEC. 139F. NATIONAL MORTGAGE SETTLEMENT.

    ``(a) General Rule.--In the case of an individual, gross income 
shall not include any National Mortgage Settlement amount.
    ``(b) National Mortgage Settlement Amount Defined.--For purposes of 
subsection (a), the term `National Mortgage Settlement amount' means, 
with respect to any amount received under the National Mortgage 
Settlement, an amount which is--
            ``(1) a payment for transitional assistance,
            ``(2) a payment from the Borrower Payment Fund under the 
        National Mortgage Settlement to a borrower whose qualified 
        principal residence was sold or taken in foreclosure after 
        December 31, 2007, and before January 1, 2014, or
            ``(3) a payment received as a result of a foreclosure or 
        excess charge of interest that the United States Department of 
        Justice has determined was not in compliance with the 
        Servicemembers Civil Relief Act.
    ``(c) Disregard of Refund of Excess Mortgage Interest and Related 
Damages.--In the case of an individual, the amount of interest refunded 
and damages paid under the National Mortgage Settlement for excess 
charges of mortgage interest described in subsection (b)(3)--
            ``(1) shall be disregarded for purposes of this chapter, 
        and
            ``(2) no adjustment of the deduction allowable under 
        section 163(h) shall be made as a result of such refund.
    ``(d) National Mortgage Settlement.--For purposes of this section, 
the term `National Mortgage Settlement' means any consent agreement 
entered into in settlement of the action entitled `The United States of 
America, et al. against Bank of America Corporation, et al.', filed in 
the United States District Court for the District of Columbia on March 
12, 2012 (case numbered 1:12-cv-00361-RMC).''.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections for such part III is 
amended by inserting before the item relating to section 140 the 
following new item:

``Sec. 139F. National Mortgage Settlement.''.
    (c) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this section shall 
apply to amounts paid on or after February 9, 2012, in taxable years 
ending after such date.

SEC. 5. DENIAL OF BUSINESS DEDUCTION FOR NATIONAL MORTGAGE SETTLEMENT 
              PAYMENTS.

    (a) In General.--Section 162 of such Code is amended by 
redesignating subsection (q) as subsection (r) and by inserting after 
subsection (p) the following new subsection:
    ``(q) National Mortgage Settlement.--
            ``(1) In general.--No deduction shall be allowed under this 
        chapter for any National Mortgage Settlement amount that was 
        paid in exchange for a full release of the United States 
        potential civil claims under the Servicemembers Civil Relief 
        Act.
            ``(2) National mortgage settlement amount.--The term 
        `National Mortgage Settlement amount' has the meaning given 
        such term by section 139F.''.
    (b) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this section shall 
apply to amounts paid in taxable years ending after February 1, 2014.
                                 <all>
