
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 5393 Introduced in House (IH)]

113th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                H. R. 5393

To amend title XVIII of the Social Security Act to provide for required 
       Medicare hospice program surveys, and for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                             August 1, 2014

 Mr. Reed (for himself and Mr. Thompson of California) introduced the 
following bill; which was referred to the Committee on Ways and Means, 
 and in addition to the Committee on Energy and Commerce, for a period 
    to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
consideration of such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the 
                          committee concerned

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
To amend title XVIII of the Social Security Act to provide for required 
       Medicare hospice program surveys, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1 SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Hospice Opportunities for Supporting 
Patients with Integrity and Care Evaluations (HOSPICE) Act of 2014''.

SEC. 2. HOSPICE SURVEY REQUIREMENT.

    (a) In General.--Section 1861(dd)(4) of the Social Security Act (42 
U.S.C. 1395x(dd)(4)) is amended by adding at the end the following new 
subparagraph:
    ``(c) Any entity that is certified as a hospice program shall be 
subject to a standard survey by an appropriate State or local survey 
agency, or an approved accreditation agency, as determined by the 
Secretary, not less frequently than once every 36 months beginning 6 
months after the date of the enactment of this subparagraph.''.
    (b) Funding.--For purposes of carrying out subparagraph (C) of 
section 1861(dd)(4) of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 
1395x(dd)(4)), as added by subsection (a), there shall be transferred 
from the Federal Hospital Insurance Trust Fund under section 1817 of 
such Act (42 U.S.C. 1395i) $25,000,000 for the period of fiscal years 
2014 through 2016, to be made available for such purposes in equal 
parts for each such fiscal year.

SEC. 3. HOSPICE PROGRAM ELIGIBILITY RECERTIFICATION TECHNICAL 
              CORRECTION TO APPLY LIMITATION ON LIABILITY OF 
              BENEFICIARY RULES.

    Section 1879 of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1395pp) is 
amended by adding at the end the following new subsection:
    ``(I) The provisions of this section shall apply with respect to a 
denial of a payment under this title by reason of section 
1814(a)(7)(D)(ii) in the same manner as such provisions apply with 
respect to a denial of a payment under this title by reason of section 
1862(a)(1).''.
                                 <all>
