
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 2095 Reported in House (RH)]

                                                 Union Calendar No. 274
113th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                H. R. 2095

                          [Report No. 113-368]

To prohibit an increase in the lands administered by the Bureau of Land 
  Management until a centralized database of all lands identified as 
suitable for disposal by Resource Management Plans for lands under the 
 administrative jurisdiction of the Bureau is easily accessible to the 
                   public on a website of the Bureau.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                              May 22, 2013

Mr. Bishop of Utah introduced the following bill; which was referred to 
                   the Committee on Natural Resources

                           February 28, 2014

Reported with amendments, committed to the Committee of the Whole House 
          on the State of the Union, and ordered to be printed
  [Omit the part struck through and insert the part printed in italic]


_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
To prohibit an increase in the lands administered by the Bureau of Land 
  Management until a centralized database of all lands identified as 
suitable for disposal by Resource Management Plans for lands under the 
 administrative jurisdiction of the Bureau is easily accessible to the 
                   public on a website of the Bureau.


 


    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. PROHIBITION ON ACQUISITION OF LAND.

    (a) Short Title.--This Act may be cited as the ``Land Disposal 
Transparency and Efficiency Act''.
    (b) Prohibition on Acquisition of Land.--No land or interests in 
land may be added by acquisition, donation, transfer of administrative 
jurisdiction, or otherwise to the inventory of land and interests in 
land administered by the Bureau of Land Management until a centralized 
database of all lands identified as suitable for disposal by Resource 
Management Plans for lands under the administrative jurisdiction of the 
Bureau is easily accessible to the public on a website of the Bureau. 
The database required under this subsection shall be updated and 
maintained to reflect changes in the status of lands identified for 
disposal under the administrative jurisdiction of the Bureau.
    (c) Report.--Not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment 
of this Act, the Secretary of the Interior shall provide to the 
Committee on Natural Resources in the House of Representatives and the 
Committee on Energy and Natural Resources in the Senate a report 
detailing the status and timing for completion of the database required 
by subsection (b).
                                                 Union Calendar No. 274

113th CONGRESS

  2d Session

                               H. R. 2095

                          [Report No. 113-368]

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL

To prohibit an increase in the lands administered by the Bureau of Land 
  Management until a centralized database of all lands identified as 
suitable for disposal by Resource Management Plans for lands under the 
 administrative jurisdiction of the Bureau is easily accessible to the 
                   public on a website of the Bureau.

_______________________________________________________________________

                           February 28, 2014

Reported with amendments, committed to the Committee of the Whole House 
          on the State of the Union, and ordered to be printed
