
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H. Res. 429 Engrossed in House (EH)]

H. Res. 429

                In the House of Representatives, U. S.,

                                                      December 4, 2013.
    Resolved, That at any time after adoption of this resolution the Speaker 
may, pursuant to clause 2(b) of rule XVIII, declare the House resolved into the 
Committee of the Whole House on the state of the Union for consideration of the 
bill (H.R. 3309) to amend title 35, United States Code, and the Leahy-Smith 
America Invents Act to make improvements and technical corrections, and for 
other purposes. The first reading of the bill shall be dispensed with. All 
points of order against consideration of the bill are waived. General debate 
shall be confined to the bill and shall not exceed one hour equally divided and 
controlled by the chair and ranking minority member of the Committee on the 
Judiciary. After general debate the bill shall be considered for amendment under 
the five-minute rule. In lieu of the amendment in the nature of a substitute 
recommended by the Committee on the Judiciary now printed in the bill, it shall 
be in order to consider as an original bill for the purpose of amendment under 
the five-minute rule an amendment in the nature of a substitute consisting of 
the text of Rules Committee Print 113-28. That amendment in the nature of a 
substitute shall be considered as read. All points of order against that 
amendment in the nature of a substitute are waived. No amendment to that 
amendment in the nature of a substitute shall be in order except those printed 
in part A of the report of the Committee on Rules accompanying this resolution. 
Each such amendment may be offered only in the order printed in the report, may 
be offered only by a Member designated in the report, shall be considered as 
read, shall be debatable for the time specified in the report equally divided 
and controlled by the proponent and an opponent, shall not be subject to 
amendment, and shall not be subject to a demand for division of the question in 
the House or in the Committee of the Whole. All points of order against such 
amendments are waived. At the conclusion of consideration of the bill for 
amendment the Committee shall rise and report the bill to the House with such 
amendments as may have been adopted. Any Member may demand a separate vote in 
the House on any amendment adopted in the Committee of the Whole to the bill or 
to the amendment in the nature of a substitute made in order as original text. 
The previous question shall be considered as ordered on the bill and amendments 
thereto to final passage without intervening motion except one motion to 
recommit with or without instructions.
    Sec. 2.  Upon adoption of this resolution it shall be in order to consider 
in the House the bill (H.R. 1105) to amend the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 
to provide a registration exemption for private equity fund advisers, and for 
other purposes. All points of order against consideration of the bill are 
waived. An amendment in the nature of a substitute consisting of the text of 
Rules Committee Print 113-29 shall be considered as adopted. The bill, as 
amended, shall be considered as read. All points of order against provisions in 
the bill, as amended, are waived. The previous question shall be considered as 
ordered on the bill, as amended, and on any further amendment thereto, to final 
passage without intervening motion except: (1) one hour of debate equally 
divided and controlled by the chair and ranking minority member of the Committee 
on Financial Services; (2) the further amendment printed in part B of the report 
of the Committee on Rules accompanying this resolution, if offered by 
Representative Carolyn Maloney of New York or her designee, which shall be in 
order without intervention of any point of order, shall be considered as read, 
shall be separately debatable for 10 minutes equally divided and controlled by 
the proponent and an opponent, and shall not be subject to a demand for division 
of the question; and (3) one motion to recommit with or without instructions.
            Attest:

                                                                          Clerk.
