
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 3801 Introduced in House (IH)]

113th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                H. R. 3801

 To repeal the reductions in military retirement benefits made by the 
Bipartisan Budget Act of 2013 and to authorize the United States Postal 
      Service to implement a modified Saturday delivery schedule.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                           December 19, 2013

   Mr. Issa introduced the following bill; which was referred to the 
   Committee on Armed Services, and in addition to the Committee on 
   Oversight and Government Reform, for a period to be subsequently 
   determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of such 
 provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
 To repeal the reductions in military retirement benefits made by the 
Bipartisan Budget Act of 2013 and to authorize the United States Postal 
      Service to implement a modified Saturday delivery schedule.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. REPEAL OF REDUCTIONS IN MILITARY RETIREMENT BENEFITS MADE BY 
              BIPARTISAN BUDGET ACT OF 2013.

    As of the date of the enactment of the Bipartisan Budget Act of 
2013, section 403 of such Act is repealed and title 10, United States 
Code, is amended to read as such title would read if such section had 
never been enacted.

SEC. 2. NATIONWIDE MAIL DELIVERY SCHEDULE.

    (a) In General.--Section 404 of title 39, United States Code, is 
amended by inserting after subsection (e) the following:
    ``(f)(1) The Postal Service may establish a general, nationwide 
mail delivery schedule of 5 days per week.
    ``(2) The Postal Service shall ensure that, under any schedule 
established under paragraph (1), there shall not occur more than 2 
consecutive days on which mail is not delivered, including as a result 
of Federal holidays.
    ``(3) For a period not to end before January 1, 2019, the Postal 
Service shall provide domestic competitive product service 6 days per 
week to each street address that was scheduled to receive package 
service 6 days per week as of September 30, 2012.
    ``(4) Nothing in this section shall be construed to authorize a 
reduction, or to require an increase, in frequency of mail delivery for 
any address for which the Postal Service provided delivery on fewer 
than 6 days per week as of January 1, 2013.''.
    (b) Mailbox Access.--If the United States Postal Service 
establishes a general, nationwide mail delivery schedule of 5 days per 
week, the Postal Service shall amend the Mailing Standards of the 
United States Postal Service (as set forth in the Domestic Mail Manual) 
to ensure that the provisions of section 508.3.2.10 of such Manual, as 
in effect on September 30, 2012, shall apply on any day on which the 
Postal Service does not deliver mail under the established delivery 
schedule.
                                 <all>
