
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 4846 Referred in Senate (RFS)]

113th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                H. R. 4846


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                           November 17, 2014

   Received; read twice and referred to the Committee on Energy and 
                           Natural Resources

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 AN ACT


 
 To adjust the boundary of the Arapaho National Forest, Colorado, and 
                          for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Arapaho National Forest Boundary 
Adjustment Act of 2014''.

SEC. 2. ARAPAHO NATIONAL FOREST BOUNDARY ADJUSTMENT.

    (a) In General.--The boundary of the Arapaho National Forest in the 
State of Colorado is adjusted to incorporate the approximately 92.95 
acres of land generally depicted as ``The Wedge'' on the map entitled 
``Arapaho National Forest Boundary Adjustment'' and dated November 6, 
2013, and described as lots three, four, eight, and nine of section 13, 
Township 4 North, Range 76 West, Sixth Principal Meridian, Colorado. A 
lot described in this subsection may be included in the boundary 
adjustment only after the Secretary of Agriculture obtains written 
permission for such action from the lot owner or owners.
    (b) Bowen Gulch Protection Area.--The Secretary of Agriculture 
shall include all Federal land within the boundary described in 
subsection (a) in the Bowen Gulch Protection Area established under 
section 6 of the Colorado Wilderness Act of 1993 (16 U.S.C. 539j).
    (c) Land and Water Conservation Fund.--For purposes of section 7 of 
the Land and Water Conservation Fund Act of 1965 (16 U.S.C. 460l-9), 
the boundaries of the Arapaho National Forest, as modified under 
subsection (a), shall be considered to be the boundaries of the Arapaho 
National Forest as in existence on January 1, 1965.
    (d) Acquisition.--The Secretary of Agriculture is authorized to 
acquire only by donation or exchange non-Federal lands within the 
boundary described in subsection (a).
    (e) Public Motorized Use.--Nothing in this Act opens privately-
owned lands within the boundary described in subsection (a) to public 
motorized use.
    (f) Access to Non-Federal Lands.--Notwithstanding the provisions of 
section 6(f) of the Colorado Wilderness Act of 1993 (16 U.S.C. 539j(f)) 
regarding motorized travel, the owners of any non-Federal lands within 
the boundary described in subsection (a) who historically have accessed 
their lands through lands now or hereafter owned by the United States 
within the boundary described in subsection (a) shall have the 
continued right of motorized access to their lands across the existing 
roadway.

            Passed the House of Representatives November 13, 2014.

            Attest:

                                                 KAREN L. HAAS,

                                                                 Clerk.
