
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 890 Referred in Senate (RFS)]

113th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                H. R. 890


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                             March 14, 2013

     Received; read twice and referred to the Committee on Finance

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 AN ACT


 
 To prohibit waivers relating to compliance with the work requirements 
for the program of block grants to States for temporary assistance for 
                needy families, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Preserving the Welfare Work 
Requirement and TANF Extension Act of 2013''.

SEC. 2. PROHIBITION ON TANF WAIVERS RELATING TO COMPLIANCE WITH THE 
              TANF WORK REQUIREMENTS.

    (a) In General.--Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the 
Secretary of Health and Human Services may not do the following:
            (1) Finalize, implement, enforce, or otherwise take any 
        action to give effect to the Information Memorandum dated July 
        12, 2012 (Transmittal No. TANF-ACF-IM-2012-03), or to any 
        administrative action relating to the same subject matter set 
        forth in the Information Memorandum or that reflects the same 
        or similar policies as those set forth in the Information 
        Memorandum.
            (2) Authorize, approve, renew, modify, or extend any 
        experimental, pilot, or demonstration project under section 
        1115 of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1315) that waives 
        compliance with a requirement of section 407 of such Act (42 
        U.S.C. 607) through a waiver of section 402 of such Act (42 
        U.S.C. 602) or that provides authority for an expenditure which 
        would not otherwise be an allowable use of funds under a State 
        program funded under part A of title IV of such Act (42 U.S.C. 
        601 et seq.) with respect to compliance with the work 
        requirements in section 407 of such Act to be regarded as an 
        allowable use of funds under that program for any period.
    (b) Rescission of Waivers.--Any waiver relating to the subject 
matter set forth in the Information Memorandum or described in 
subsection (a)(2) that is granted before the date of the enactment of 
this Act is hereby rescinded and shall be null and void.

SEC. 3. EXTENSION OF THE TEMPORARY ASSISTANCE FOR NEEDY FAMILIES 
              PROGRAM AND RELATED PROGRAMS THROUGH DECEMBER 31, 2013.

    Activities authorized by part A of title IV and section 1108(b) of 
the Social Security Act (other than under section 403(b) of such Act) 
shall continue through December 31, 2013, in the manner authorized for 
fiscal year 2012, and out of any money in the Treasury of the United 
States not otherwise appropriated, there are hereby appropriated such 
sums as may be necessary for such purpose. Grants and payments may be 
made pursuant to this authority on a quarterly basis through the first 
quarter of fiscal year 2014 at the level provided for such activities 
for the corresponding quarter of fiscal year 2012.

SEC. 4. BUDGETARY EFFECTS.

    The budgetary effects of this Act, for the purpose of complying 
with the Statutory Pay-As-You-Go Act of 2010, shall be determined by 
reference to the latest statement titled ``Budgetary Effects of PAYGO 
Legislation'' for this Act, submitted for printing in the Congressional 
Record by the Chairman of the Senate Budget Committee, provided that 
such statement has been submitted prior to the vote on passage.

            Passed the House of Representatives March 13, 2013.

            Attest:

                                                 KAREN L. HAAS,

                                                                 Clerk.
