
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[S. 2952 Introduced in Senate (IS)]

113th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                S. 2952

  To establish the Commission on Evidence-Based Policymaking, and for 
                            other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                           November 20, 2014

  Mrs. Murray introduced the following bill; which was read twice and 
referred to the Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
  To establish the Commission on Evidence-Based Policymaking, and for 
                            other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Evidence-Based Policymaking 
Commission Act of 2014''.

SEC. 2. ESTABLISHMENT.

    There is established in the executive branch a commission to be 
known as the ``Commission on Evidence-Based Policymaking'' (in this Act 
referred to as the ``Commission'').

SEC. 3. MEMBERS OF THE COMMISSION.

    (a) Number and Appointment.--The Commission shall be comprised of 
15 members as follows:
            (1) Three shall be appointed by the President, of whom--
                    (A) 1 shall be an academic researcher, data expert, 
                or have experience in program administration;
                    (B) 1 shall have expertise in database management, 
                confidentiality, and privacy matters; and
                    (C) 1 shall be the Director of the Office of 
                Management and Budget (or the Director's designee).
            (2) Three shall be appointed by the Speaker of the House of 
        Representatives, of whom--
                    (A) 2 shall be academic researchers, data experts, 
                or have experience in program administration; and
                    (B) 1 shall have expertise in database management, 
                confidentiality, and privacy matters.
            (3) Three shall be appointed by the Minority Leader of the 
        House of Representatives, of whom--
                    (A) 2 shall be academic researchers, data experts, 
                or have experience in program administration; and
                    (B) 1 shall have expertise in database management, 
                confidentiality, and privacy matters.
            (4) Three shall be appointed by the Majority Leader of the 
        Senate, of whom--
                    (A) 2 shall be academic researchers, data experts, 
                or have experience in program administration; and
                    (B) 1 shall have expertise in database management, 
                confidentiality, and privacy matters.
            (5) Three shall be appointed by the Minority Leader of the 
        Senate, of whom--
                    (A) 2 shall be academic researchers, data experts, 
                or have experience in program administration; and
                    (B) 1 shall have expertise in database management, 
                confidentiality, and privacy matters.
    (b) Expertise.--In making appointments under this section, 
consideration should be given to individuals with expertise in 
economics, statistics, program evaluation, data security, 
confidentiality, or database management.
    (c) Chairperson and Co-Chairperson.--The President shall select the 
chairperson of the Commission and the Speaker of the House of 
Representatives shall select the co-chairperson.
    (d) Timing of Appointments.--Appointments to the Commission shall 
be made not later than 45 days after the date of enactment of this Act.
    (e) Terms; Vacancies.--Each member shall be appointed for the 
duration of the Commission. Any vacancy in the Commission shall not 
affect its powers, and shall be filled in the manner in which the 
original appointment was made.
    (f) Compensation.--Members of the Commission shall serve without 
pay.
    (g) Travel Expenses.--Each member of the Commission shall be 
allowed travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, at 
rates authorized for employees of agencies under subchapter I of 
chapter 57 of title 5, United States Code, while away from their homes 
or regular places of business in the performance of services for the 
Commission.

SEC. 4. DUTIES OF THE COMMISSION.

    (a) Study of Data.--The Commission shall conduct a comprehensive 
study of the data inventory, data infrastructure, and statistical 
protocols related to Federal policymaking and the statistical and 
programmatic agencies responsible for maintaining that data to--
            (1) determine the optimal arrangement for which 
        administrative data on Federal programs and tax expenditures 
        and related data series may be integrated and made available to 
        facilitate program evaluation, policy-relevant research, and 
        cost-benefit analyses by qualified researchers and 
        institutions;
            (2) make recommendations on how data infrastructure and 
        protocols should be modified to best fulfill the objectives 
        identified in paragraph (1); and
            (3) make recommendations on how best to incorporate 
        outcomes measurement, institutionalize randomized controlled 
        trials, and rigorous impact analysis into program design.
    (b) Clearinghouse.--In undertaking the study required by subsection 
(a), the Commission shall consider if and how to create a clearinghouse 
for program and survey data, which shall include evaluation of--
            (1) what administrative datasets that are relevant for 
        program evaluation and Federal policy-making should be included 
        in a potential clearinghouse;
            (2) which survey datasets the administrative datasets 
        identified in paragraph (1) may be linked to, in addition to 
        linkages across administrative data series;
            (3) what are the legal and administrative barriers to 
        including or linking these data series;
            (4) what data-sharing infrastructure should be used to 
        facilitate data merging and access for research purposes;
            (5) how a clearinghouse could be self-funded;
            (6) which types of qualified researchers, officials, and 
        institutions should have access to data;
            (7) what limitations should be placed on the use of data 
        provided;
            (8) how to protect information and ensure individual 
        privacy and confidentiality;
            (9) how the data and results of research can be used to 
        inform program administrators and policymakers to improve 
        program design; and
            (10) what incentives may facilitate interagency sharing of 
        information to improve programmatic effectiveness and enhance 
        data accuracy and comprehensiveness.
    (c) Report.--Upon the affirmative vote of at least three-quarters 
of the members of the Commission, the Commission shall submit to the 
President and Congress a detailed statement of its findings and 
conclusions as a result of the study required by subsection (a), 
together with its recommendations for such legislation or 
administrative actions as the Commission considers appropriate in light 
of the results of the study.
    (d) Deadline.--The report under subsection (c) shall be submitted 
not later than the date that is 15 months after the date a majority of 
the members of the Commission are appointed pursuant to section 3.
    (e) Definition.--In this section, the term ``administrative data'' 
means information, in whatever form, generated or collected by an 
agency in carrying out a Federal program, including any customer 
service measure, efficiency measure, milestone, outcome measure, or 
performance indicator, as those terms are defined in section 1115(h) of 
title 31, United States Code.

SEC. 5. OPERATION AND POWERS OF THE COMMISSION.

    (a) Administrative Assistance.--The heads of the following agencies 
shall advise and consult with the Commission on matters within their 
respective areas of responsibility:
            (1) The Office of Management and Budget.
            (2) The Bureau of the Census.
            (3) The Internal Revenue Service.
            (4) The Bureau of Economic Analysis.
            (5) The Bureau of Labor Statistics.
            (6) The Department of Health and Human Services.
            (7) The Department of Agriculture.
            (8) The Department of Housing and Urban Development.
            (9) The Social Security Administration.
            (10) The Department of Education.
            (11) The Department of Justice.
            (12) Any other agency, as determined by the Commission.
    (b) Meetings.--The Commission shall meet not later than 30 days 
after the date upon which a majority of its members have been appointed 
and at such times thereafter as the chairperson or co-chairperson shall 
determine.
    (c) Rules of Procedure.--The chairperson and co-chairperson shall, 
with the approval of a majority of the members of the Commission, 
establish written rules of procedure for the Commission, which shall 
include a quorum requirement to conduct the business of the Commission.
    (d) Hearings.--The Commission may, for the purpose of carrying out 
this Act, hold hearings, sit and act at times and places, take 
testimony, and receive evidence as the Commission considers 
appropriate.
    (e) Contracts.--Subject to the availability of appropriations, the 
Commission may contract with and compensate government and private 
agencies or persons for any purpose necessary to enable it to carry out 
this Act.
    (f) Mails.--The Commission may use the United States mails in the 
same manner and under the same conditions as other agencies of the 
Federal Government.
    (g) Gifts.--The Commission may accept, use, and dispose of gifts or 
donations of services or property.
    (h) Census Bureau and NAPA.--Subject to the availability of 
appropriations, the Director of the Census shall contract with the 
National Academy of Public Administration to administer the Commission.
    (i) Funding.--
            (1) In general.--Subject to the availability of 
        appropriations, at the request of the Director of the Census, 
        the principal statistical agencies shall provide funds, in a 
        total amount not to exceed $2,000,000, to the Director for 
        purposes of funding the operations of the Commission.
            (2) Definition.--In this subsection, the term ``principal 
        statistical agency'' has the meaning given that term in the 
        report, published by the Office of Management and Budget, 
        entitled ``Statistical Programs of the United States 
        Government, Fiscal Year 2014''.

SEC. 6. PERSONNEL.

    (a) Director.--The Commission shall have a Director who shall be 
appointed by the chairperson with the concurrence of the co-
chairperson. The Director shall be paid at a rate of pay established by 
the chairperson and co-chairperson, not to exceed the annual rate of 
basic pay payable for level V of the Executive Schedule (section 5316 
of title 5, United States Code).
    (b) Staff.--The Director may appoint and fix the pay of additional 
staff as the Director considers appropriate.
    (c) Experts and Consultants.--The Commission may procure temporary 
and intermittent services under section 3109(b) of title 5, United 
States Code, at rates for individuals which do not to exceed the daily 
equivalent of the annual rate of basic pay for a comparable position 
paid under the General Schedule.

SEC. 7. TERMINATION.

    The Commission shall terminate not later than 18 months after the 
date of enactment of this Act.
                                 <all>
