
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[S. 588 Introduced in Senate (IS)]

113th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                 S. 588

            For the relief of Robert Liang and Alice Liang.


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                             March 18, 2013

Mrs. Feinstein introduced the following bill; which was read twice and 
               referred to the Committee on the Judiciary

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
            For the relief of Robert Liang and Alice Liang.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. ADJUSTMENT OF STATUS.

    (a) In General.--Notwithstanding any other provision of law or any 
order, for the purposes of the Immigration and Nationality Act (8 
U.S.C. 1101 et seq.), Robert Liang and Alice Liang shall be deemed to 
have been lawfully admitted to, and remained in, the United States, and 
shall be eligible for issuance of an immigrant visa or for adjustment 
of status under section 245 of the Immigration and Nationality Act (8 
U.S.C. 1255).
    (b) Application and Payment of Fees.--Subsection (a) shall apply 
only if the applications for issuance of immigrant visas or the 
applications for adjustment of status are filed with appropriate fees 
not later than 2 years after the date of the enactment of this Act.
    (c) Reduction of Immigrant Visa Numbers.--Upon the granting of 
immigrant visas to Robert Liang and Alice Liang, the Secretary of State 
shall instruct the proper officer to reduce by 2, during the current or 
subsequent fiscal year, the total number of immigrant visas that are 
made available to natives of the country of birth of Robert Liang and 
Alice Liang under section 203(a) of the Immigration and Nationality Act 
(8 U.S.C. 1153(a)) or, if applicable, the total number of immigrant 
visas that are made available to natives of the country of birth of 
Robert Liang and Alice Liang under section 202(e) of that Act (8 U.S.C. 
1152(e)).
    (d) PAYGO.--The budgetary effects of this Act, for the purpose of 
complying with the Statutory Pay-As-You-Go Act of 2010, shall be 
determined by reference to the latest statement titled ``Budgetary 
Effects of PAYGO Legislation'' for this Act, submitted for printing in 
the Congressional Record by the Chairman of the Senate Budget 
Committee, provided that such statement has been submitted prior to the 
vote on passage.
                                 <all>
