
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 1089 Introduced in House (IH)]

113th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                H. R. 1089

      To stimulate collaboration with respect to, and provide for 
   coordination and coherence of, the Nation's science, technology, 
   engineering, and mathematics education initiatives, and for other 
                               purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                             March 12, 2013

Mr. Honda (for himself, Ms. Bass, Mrs. Beatty, Mr. Bera of California, 
Ms. Bordallo, Ms. Brownley of California, Mr. Butterfield, Ms. Chu, Mr. 
 Cicilline, Mr. Cleaver, Mr. Conyers, Mr. Danny K. Davis of Illinois, 
Mr. Ellison, Mr. Al Green of Texas, Mr. Grijalva, Mr. Langevin, Ms. Lee 
 of California, Mr. Lowenthal, Mr. McDermott, Mrs. Negrete McLeod, Mr. 
 Meeks, Ms. Moore, Mr. Nadler, Mrs. Napolitano, Ms. Norton, Mr. Payne, 
 Mr. Polis, Mr. Price of North Carolina, Ms. Roybal-Allard, Mr. Ruiz, 
Mr. Rush, Mr. Ryan of Ohio, Mr. Sablan, Ms. Schakowsky, Mr. Sires, Ms. 
    Speier, Mr. Swalwell of California, Mr. Takano, and Mr. Veasey) 
 introduced the following bill; which was referred to the Committee on 
                      Education and the Workforce

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
      To stimulate collaboration with respect to, and provide for 
   coordination and coherence of, the Nation's science, technology, 
   engineering, and mathematics education initiatives, and for other 
                               purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Stepping Up to STEM Act of 2013''.

SEC. 2. FINDINGS.

    Congress finds the following:
            (1) Technology and the Internet have transformed nearly 
        every aspect of both the global economy and our daily lives. In 
        a technology-rich world, no amount of memorizing information 
        will make a student competitive in the global labor market. 
        America needs an education system that supports students from 
        all walks of life in becoming inquisitive, resourceful thinkers 
        who use technology to pursue knowledge, collaborate across 
        geographic and cultural boundaries, acquire new skills, and 
        solve complex problems.
            (2) Equality and equity of access is more than access to 
        the same hardware, software, and broadband connections. It 
        includes access to the best digital learning resources and 
        access to teachers who know how to orchestrate the use of these 
        resources in ways that inspire students and produce better 
        learning outcomes.
            (3) Technology by itself will not improve student outcomes. 
        What is needed are carefully designed innovations that include 
        not just technology but also good learning content, effective 
        instructional strategies, supports for teachers and school 
        systems figuring out how to use the new approach, and the 
        capacity to collect, analyze and reflect on data that will show 
        whether or not the innovation is having the intended effects.
            (4) Effective learning technology implementations 
        addressing the challenging aspects of language arts, 
        mathematics and science that all students are expected to 
        master. This will require partnerships among education 
        agencies, education researchers, and technology developers with 
        the common goal of harnessing technology to provide 
        opportunities for deeper learning to students who would not 
        otherwise experience them.

SEC. 3. OFFICE OF SCIENCE, TECHNOLOGY, ENGINEERING, AND MATHEMATICS 
              EDUCATION WITHIN THE DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION.

    (a) Assistant Secretary.--Section 202 of the Department of 
Education Organization Act (20 U.S.C. 3412) is amended in subsection 
(b)(1)--
            (1) in subparagraph (E) by striking ``and'' at the end;
            (2) by redesignating subparagraph (F) as (G); and
            (3) by inserting after subparagraph (E) the following:
                    ``(F) an Assistant Secretary for Science, 
                Technology, Engineering, and Mathematics Education (in 
                this Act referred to as the `Assistant Secretary for 
                STEM Education'); and''.
    (b) Office.--Title II of the Department of Education Organization 
Act (20 U.S.C. 3411 et seq.) is amended by adding at the end the 
following:

``SEC. 221. OFFICE OF SCIENCE, TECHNOLOGY, ENGINEERING, AND MATHEMATICS 
              EDUCATION.

    ``(a) In General.--There shall be in the Department of Education an 
Office of Science, Technology, Engineering, and Mathematics Education 
(in this section referred to as the `Office of STEM Education'), to be 
administered by the Assistant Secretary for STEM Education appointed 
under section 202(b).
    ``(b) Responsibilities.--The Assistant Secretary of STEM Education, 
acting through the Office, shall serve as the principal advisor to the 
Secretary on matters affecting science, technology, engineering, and 
math education, and shall administer such functions representing STEM 
education, including the coordination of STEM activities and programs 
across Federal agencies.
    ``(c) Evaluation and Report.--The Assistant Secretary for STEM 
Education shall conduct an independent evaluation, through grant or by 
contract, of the STEM education programs administered by the 
Department, at least every 5 years, which shall include--
            ``(1) conducting an assessment of STEM education activities 
        within the Department by using the evaluations and reports of 
        these programs to determine these programs' impact on--
                    ``(A) the quantity of students taking advanced 
                placement in STEM areas and seeking STEM degrees;
                    ``(B) the quantity of students exposed to STEM 
                content in the hours outside of the regular school day;
                    ``(C) student academic achievement in mathematics 
                and science; and
                    ``(D) the increased number of highly qualified STEM 
                teachers, STEM content coaches, and STEM master 
                educators; and
            ``(2) the preparation and submission of a report on the 
        results of the evaluation described in paragraph (1) to the 
        Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions and the 
        Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the 
        Senate, the Committee on Education and the Workforce and the 
        Committee on Science, Space, and Technology of the House of 
        Representatives, and the Committees on Appropriations of the 
        Senate and the House of Representatives.
    ``(d) Authorization of Appropriations.--There are authorized to be 
appropriated $1,500,000 to carry out this section for fiscal year 2014 
and such sums as may be necessary for each fiscal year thereafter.''.

SEC. 4. ADVANCED RESEARCH PROJECTS AGENCY FOR EDUCATION.

    Title II of the Department of Education Organization Act (20 U.S.C. 
3411 et seq.), as amended by section 2 of this Act, is further amended 
by adding at the end the following:

``SEC. 222. ADVANCED RESEARCH PROJECTS AGENCY FOR EDUCATION.

    ``(a) Establishment.--There shall be in the Department an Advanced 
Research Projects Agency for Education (referred to in this section as 
`ARPA-ED').
    ``(b) Purposes.--ARPA-ED is established under this section for the 
purposes of pursuing breakthrough research and development in 
educational technology and providing the effective use of the 
technology to improve achievement for all students, by--
            ``(1) integrating STEM related content areas including 
        science, technology, computer science, engineering design, 
        mathematics and computational thinking;
            ``(2) identifying and promoting revolutionary advances in 
        fundamental and applied sciences and engineering that could be 
        translated into new learning technologies;
            ``(3) developing novel learning technologies, and the 
        enabling processes and contexts for effective use of those 
        technologies;
            ``(4) developing, testing, and evaluating the impact and 
        efficacy of those technologies;
            ``(5) developing educational technology innovations 
        including data analytic tools that help State educational 
        agencies and local educational agencies with reporting required 
        under Federal accountability mandates;
            ``(6) accelerating transformational technological advances 
        in areas in which the private sector, by itself, is not likely 
        to accelerate such advances because of difficulties in 
        implementation or adoption, or technical and market 
        uncertainty;
            ``(7) coordinating activities with nongovernmental entities 
        to demonstrate technologies and research applications to 
        facilitate technology transfer; and
            ``(8) encouraging educational research using new 
        technologies and the data produced by the technologies.
    ``(c) Coordination.--
            ``(1) The Agency shall work closely and collaboratively 
        between agencies in order to maximize the Federal effort and 
        investment to the Project.
            ``(2) The Agency shall work with the National Science 
        Foundation's Cyber Learning Program.
    ``(d) Authorities of Secretary.--The Secretary is authorized to--
            ``(1) appoint a Director, who shall be responsible for 
        carrying out the purposes of ARPA-ED, as described in 
        subsection (b), and such additional functions as the Secretary 
        may prescribe;
            ``(2) establish processes for the development and execution 
        of projects and the solicitation of entities to carry out the 
        projects in a manner that is--
                    ``(A) tailored to the purposes of ARPA-ED and not 
                constrained by other Department-wide administrative 
                requirements that could detract from achieving program 
                results; and
                    ``(B) designed to heighten transparency, and 
                public- and private-sector involvement, to ensure that 
                investments are made in the most promising areas;
            ``(3) award grants, contracts, cooperative agreements, and 
        cash prizes, and enter into other transactions (in accordance 
        with such regulations as the Secretary may establish regarding 
        other transactions);
            ``(4) obtain independent, periodic, rigorous evaluations, 
        as appropriate, of--
                    ``(A) the effectiveness of the processes ARPA-ED is 
                using to achieve its purposes; and
                    ``(B) the effectiveness of individual projects 
                assisted by ARPA-ED, using evidence standards developed 
                in consultation with the Institute of Education 
                Sciences, and the suitability of ongoing projects 
                assisted by ARPA-ED for further investment or increased 
                scale; and
            ``(5) disseminate, through the comprehensive centers 
        established under section 203 of the Educational Technical 
        Assistance Act of 2002 (20 U.S.C. 9602), the regional 
        educational laboratories system established under section 174 
        of the Education Sciences Reform Act of 2002 (20 U.S.C. 9564), 
        or such other means as the Secretary determines to be 
        appropriate, information on effective practices and 
        technologies developed with ARPA-ED support.
    ``(e) Evaluation Funds.--The Secretary may use funds made available 
for ARPA-ED to pay the cost of the evaluations under subsection (c)(6).
    ``(f) Federal Advisory Committee Act.--Notwithstanding any other 
provision of law, any advisory committee convened by the Secretary to 
provide advice with respect to this section shall be exempt from the 
requirements of the Federal Advisory Committee Act (5 U.S.C. App.) and 
the definition of `employee' in section 2105 of title 5, United States 
Code, shall not be considered to include any appointee to such a 
committee.
    ``(g) Nonduplication.--To the maximum extent practicable, the 
Secretary shall ensure that grants, contracts, cooperative agreements, 
cash prizes, or other assistance or arrangements awarded or entered 
into pursuant to this section that are designed to carry out the 
purposes of ARPA-ED do not duplicate activities under programs carried 
out under Federal law other than this section by the Department or 
other Federal agencies.''.

SEC. 5. STATE NETWORKS AND CONSORTIA ON SCIENCE, TECHNOLOGY, 
              ENGINEERING, AND MATHEMATICS EDUCATION.

    (a) In General.--From amounts made available to carry out this 
section, the Secretary of Education shall make grants to eligible 
networks to expand STEM education.
    (b) Eligible Network Defined.--In this section, the term ``eligible 
network'' means a State-based STEM network or similar organization, 
which--
            (1) may include the participation of State officials, 
        educators, administrators, afterschool providers, out of school 
        time educators, parents, industry leaders, philanthropists, and 
        representatives from the STEM communities;
            (2) aims to increase student achievement and experiences in 
        the STEM disciplines at the elementary schools and secondary 
        schools in its State, and out of school programs and 
        particularly for students with a high concentration of 
        historically under represented students and at rural schools 
        (within the meaning of part B of title VI of the Elementary and 
        Secondary Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 6201 et seq.)); and
            (3) aims to increase the number of quality afterschool 
        programs offering STEM learning opportunities, particularly for 
        students from populations traditionally under-represented in 
        the STEM fields.
    (c) Eligible Network Application.--
            (1) In general.--An eligible network seeking a grant under 
        this section shall submit an application at such time, in such 
        manner, and containing such information as the Secretary may 
        reasonably require.
            (2) Matching requirement.--In order to receive a grant 
        under this section, an eligible network shall agree to provide, 
        either directly or through private contributions, non-Federal 
        matching funds equal to not less than 30 percent of the amount 
        of the grant.
    (d) Uses of Funds.--Each eligible network receiving a grant under 
this section shall use the funds to carry out one or more of the 
following:
            (1) Testing, validating, sharing, and scaling up STEM 
        education research, promising practices, and exemplary programs 
        among members of the network and with other eligible networks 
        receiving grants under this section.
            (2) Identifying points of weakness and strength among State 
        STEM education efforts, prioritizing strategies for addressing 
        problem areas, and communicating State needs to the Secretary.
            (3) Assisting in the implementation of rigorous career and 
        college ready standards in STEM education for grades 
        prekindergarten through grade 12 that reflect and take into 
        consideration--
                    (A) career and college ready standards in STEM 
                disciplines;
                    (B) established international standards and 21st 
                century skills that include critical thinking, problem 
                solving, communication, collaboration, creativity, and 
                innovation;
                    (C) the needs of English language learners and 
                special education students; and
                    (D) the need to increase STEM literacy of 
                prekindergarten through grade 12 students.
            (4) Assisting the development of innovative STEM 
        assessments that measure interest, engagement, and content 
        proficiency.
            (5) Supporting the implementation of STEM assessments that 
        measure career and college ready standards.
            (6) Promoting and developing rigorous undergraduate pre-
        service teacher programs in institutions of higher education 
        that emphasize STEM content with emphasis on the elementary 
        educator.
            (7) Promoting and developing curriculum tools and 
        professional development for STEM educators both in school and 
        out of school.
            (8) Developing STEM career pathways that reflect the 
        projected STEM workforce needs of the 21st century that may 
        include mentoring programs and STEM professional outreach.
            (9) Developing STEM-related education and workforce 
        training programs in secondary schools and community colleges 
        to reflect the needs of the local community.
            (10) Developing systems for the implementation of expanded 
        learning opportunities on school sites to enhance STEM 
        education inside and outside of the classroom.
            (11) Promoting, supporting, and designing programs that 
        develop STEM content coaches and master educators in order to 
        strengthen core competencies of the classroom practitioner.
    (e) Evaluation and Report.--Not later than 2 years after receiving 
a grant under this section, each eligible network receiving such a 
grant shall--
            (1) conduct periodic independent evaluations, by grant or 
        by contract, of the eligible network's effectiveness at 
        accomplishing the activities described in this section, which 
        shall include an assessment of the impact of such activities on 
        STEM teaching and learning; and
            (2) prepare and submit a report on the results of each 
        evaluation described in paragraph (1) to the Secretary and make 
        for dissemination to other STEM Networks.
    (f) Prohibitions.--In implementing this section, the Secretary may 
not--
            (1) endorse, approve, or sanction any STEM curriculum 
        designed for use in any elementary school, secondary school, or 
        institution of higher education; or
            (2) engage in oversight, technical assistance, or 
        activities that will require the adoption of a specific STEM 
        program or instructional materials by a State, local 
        educational agency, or school.
    (g) Total Amount of Grants.--The total amount of grants made under 
this section in any fiscal year may not exceed $20,000,000.
    (h) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) The terms ``elementary school'', ``local educational 
        agency'', ``secondary school'', and ``State educational 
        agency'' have the meanings given such terms in section 9101 of 
        the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 
        7801).
            (2) The term ``high concentration of low-income students'' 
        has the meaning given such term in section 1707 of the 
        Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 
        6537).
            (3) The term ``institution of higher education'' has the 
        meaning given such term in section 101 of the Higher Education 
        Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1001).
            (4) The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary of 
        Education.
            (5) The term ``State'' means each of the several States of 
        the United States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth 
        of Puerto Rico, Guam, the Commonwealth of Northern Mariana 
        Islands, American Samoa, and the United States Virgin Islands.
            (6) The term ``STEM'' means science, technology, 
        engineering, and mathematics.
            (7) The term ``21st century readiness initiative'' means 
        any initiative that--
                    (A) embeds core academic subjects with critical 
                skills; and
                    (B) is focused on ensuring that students are 
                prepared for postsecondary education and careers, upon 
                graduation from secondary school.
                                 <all>
