
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.J. Res. 76 Engrossed Amendment Senate (EAS)]

                  In the Senate of the United States,

                                                        August 1, 2014.
    Resolved, That the resolution from the House of Representatives 
(H.J. Res. 76) entitled ``Joint resolution making continuing 
appropriations for the National Nuclear Security Administration for 
fiscal year 2014, and for other purposes.'', do pass with the following

                              AMENDMENTS:

            Strike all after the first word, and insert:


 
 

    the following sum is appropriated, out of any money in the Treasury 
not otherwise appropriated, for the fiscal year ending September 30, 
2014, and for other purposes, namely:

                         DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE

                              PROCUREMENT

                       Procurement, Defense-wide

    For an additional amount for ``Procurement, Defense-Wide'', 
$225,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 2015, which shall 
be for the Secretary of Defense to provide to the Government of Israel 
for the procurement of the Iron Dome defense system to counter short-
range rocket threats:  Provided, That such funds shall be transferred 
immediately only through an exchange of letters to address emergent 
operations in support of Operation Protective Edge, notwithstanding 
section 3.1.3.2.1 of the U.S.-Israel Iron Dome Procurement Agreement:  
Provided further, That nothing in this paragraph shall be construed to 
apply to previously appropriated funds for the procurement of Iron 
Dome:  Provided further, That such amount is designated by the Congress 
as an emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the 
Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
    This joint resolution may be cited as the ``Emergency Supplemental 
Appropriations Resolution, 2014''.

            Amend the title so as to read: ``A bill making an emergency 
        supplemental appropriation for the fiscal year ending September 
        30, 2014, to provide funding to Israel for the Iron Dome 
        defense system to counter short-range rocket threats.''.

            Attest:

                                                             Secretary.
113th CONGRESS

  2d Session

                             H. J. RES. 76

_______________________________________________________________________

                               AMENDMENTS
