
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[S. 582 Placed on Calendar Senate (PCS)]

                                                        Calendar No. 29
113th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                 S. 582

                  To approve the Keystone XL Pipeline.


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                             March 14, 2013

   Mr. Hoeven (for himself, Mr. Baucus, Mr. Roberts, Mr. Pryor, Mr. 
   Vitter, Ms. Heitkamp, Mr. Cornyn, Mr. Begich, Ms. Murkowski, Ms. 
    Landrieu, Mr. Risch, Mr. Manchin, Mr. Barrasso, Mr. Tester, Mr. 
  Donnelly, and Mr. Portman) introduced the following bill; which was 
                          read the first time

                             March 18, 2013

            Read the second time and placed on the calendar

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
                  To approve the Keystone XL Pipeline.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. KEYSTONE XL PERMIT APPROVAL.

    (a) In General.--In accordance with clause 3 of section 8 of 
article I of the Constitution (delegating to Congress the power to 
regulate commerce with foreign nations), TransCanada Keystone Pipeline, 
L.P. is authorized to construct, connect, operate, and maintain 
pipeline facilities for the import of crude oil and other hydrocarbons 
at the United States-Canada Border at Phillips County, Montana, in 
accordance with the application filed with the Department of State on 
May 4, 2012.
    (b) Presidential Permit Not Required.--Notwithstanding Executive 
Order No. 13337 (3 U.S.C. 301 note), Executive Order No. 11423 (3 
U.S.C. 301 note), section 301 of title 3, United States Code, and any 
other Executive order or provision of law, no presidential permit shall 
be required for the facilities described in subsection (a).
    (c) Environmental Impact Statement.--The final environmental impact 
statement issued by the Secretary of State on August 26, 2011, the 
Final Evaluation Report issued by the Nebraska Department of 
Environmental Quality on January 3, 2013, and the Draft Supplemental 
Environmental Impact Statement issued on March 1, 2013, regarding the 
crude oil pipeline and appurtenant facilities associated with the 
facilities described in subsection (a), shall be considered to 
satisfy--
            (1) all requirements of the National Environmental Policy 
        Act of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 4321 et seq.); and
            (2) any other provision of law that requires Federal agency 
        consultation or review with respect to the facilities described 
        in subsection (a) and the related facilities in the United 
        States.
    (d) Permits.--Any Federal permit or authorization issued before the 
date of enactment of this Act for the facilities described in 
subsection (a), and the related facilities in the United States shall 
remain in effect.
    (e) Federal Judicial Review.--The facilities described in 
subsection (a), and the related facilities in the United States, that 
are approved by this section, and any permit, right-of-way, or other 
action taken to construct or complete the project pursuant to Federal 
law, shall only be subject to judicial review on direct appeal to the 
United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit.
                                                        Calendar No. 29

113th CONGRESS

  1st Session

                                 S. 582

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL

                  To approve the Keystone XL Pipeline.

_______________________________________________________________________

                             March 18, 2013

            Read the second time and placed on the calendar
