
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 5455 Introduced in House (IH)]

113th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                H. R. 5455

  To amend the Security and Accountability For Every Port Act of 2006 
   (``SAFE Port Act'') to administer a pilot program for 100 percent 
scanning of cargo containers at domestic ports, and for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                           September 11, 2014

   Ms. Hahn introduced the following bill; which was referred to the 
                     Committee on Homeland Security

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
  To amend the Security and Accountability For Every Port Act of 2006 
   (``SAFE Port Act'') to administer a pilot program for 100 percent 
scanning of cargo containers at domestic ports, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Scan Containers Absolutely Now Act'' 
or the ``SCAN Act''.

SEC. 2. 100 PERCENT SCANNING OF CARGO CONTAINERS AT DOMESTIC PORTS 
              PILOT PROGRAM.

    Subtitle C of the Security and Accountability For Every Port Act of 
2006 (6 U.S.C. 901 et seq.) is amended by adding at the end the 
following:

``SEC. 237. 100 PERCENT SCANNING OF CARGO CONTAINERS AT DOMESTIC PORTS 
              PILOT PROGRAM.

    ``(a) Designations.--
            ``(1) In general.--The Secretary shall conduct a 1-year 
        pilot program at 2 domestic ports to evaluate the process of 
        100 percent scanning of cargo containers and its potential for 
        use at all domestic ports.
            ``(2) Equipment.--The Secretary shall--
                    ``(A) select the equipment necessary to conduct the 
                pilot program under this section prior to the 
                solicitation of applications from domestic ports under 
                paragraph (3);
                    ``(B) make information about the equipment 
                available to domestic ports as part of the application 
                process under paragraph (3);
                    ``(C) purchase the equipment necessary to conduct 
                the pilot program under this section; and
                    ``(D) permit equipment purchased and implemented 
                under this section to remain with the selected ports 
                upon completion of the pilot program.
            ``(3) Application process.--The Secretary shall--
                    ``(A) conduct an application process by soliciting 
                applications from domestic ports; and
                    ``(B) select 2 domestic ports to participate in the 
                pilot program.
    ``(b) Evaluation.--In consultation with the Government 
Accountability Office, the Secretary shall determine performance 
measures to be used to assess the program prior to the selection of 
participating ports under subsection (a)(3).
    ``(c) Implementation.--Not later than 1 year after the date of 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall achieve a full-scale 
implementation of the pilot program under this section.
    ``(d) Report.--Not later than 1 year after completion of pilot 
program under this section, the Secretary shall submit a report to the 
House Committee on Homeland Security that includes--
            ``(1) an evaluation of the process of 100 percent scanning 
        of cargo containers;
            ``(2) the results of performance measures used to assess 
        the pilot program implemented under this section; and
            ``(3) recommendations of how to carry out 100 percent 
        scanning at all domestic ports.
    ``(e) Authorization of Appropriations.--There is authorized to be 
appropriated to the Department not to exceed $30,000,000, to carry out 
the pilot program implemented under this section for fiscal year 
2014.''.

SEC. 3. CLERICAL AMENDMENT.

    The table of contents of the Security and Accountability For Every 
Port Act of 2006 (6 U.S.C. 901 et seq.) is amended by inserting after 
the item relating to section 236 the following:

``Sec. 237. 100 percent scanning of cargo containers at domestic ports 
                            pilot program.''.
                                 <all>
