
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 2216 Reported in Senate (RS)]

                                                       Calendar No. 102
113th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                H. R. 2216

                          [Report No. 113-48]


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                              June 6, 2013

  Received; read twice and referred to the Committee on Appropriations

                             June 27, 2013

       Reported by Mr. Johnson of South Dakota, with an amendment
 [Strike out all after the enacting clause and insert the part printed 
                               in italic]

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 AN ACT


 
  Making appropriations for military construction, the Department of 
   Veterans Affairs, and related agencies for the fiscal year ending 
              September 30, 2014, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled, <DELETED>That the 
following sums are appropriated, out of any money in the Treasury not 
otherwise appropriated, for military construction, the Department of 
Veterans Affairs, and related agencies for the fiscal year ending 
September 30, 2014, and for other purposes, namely:

                       <DELETED>TITLE I</DELETED>

                <DELETED>DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE</DELETED>

             <DELETED>Military Construction, Army</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For acquisition, construction, installation, and equipment 
of temporary or permanent public works, military installations, 
facilities, and real property for the Army as currently authorized by 
law, including personnel in the Army Corps of Engineers and other 
personal services necessary for the purposes of this appropriation, and 
for construction and operation of facilities in support of the 
functions of the Commander in Chief, $1,099,875,000, to remain 
available until September 30, 2018:  Provided, That of this amount, not 
to exceed $64,575,000 shall be available for study, planning, design, 
architect and engineer services, and host nation support, as authorized 
by law, unless the Secretary of Army determines that additional 
obligations are necessary for such purposes and notifies the Committees 
on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress of the determination and 
the reasons therefor.</DELETED>

    <DELETED>Military Construction, Navy and Marine Corps</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For acquisition, construction, installation, and equipment 
of temporary or permanent public works, naval installations, 
facilities, and real property for the Navy and Marine Corps as 
currently authorized by law, including personnel in the Naval 
Facilities Engineering Command and other personal services necessary 
for the purposes of this appropriation, $1,616,281,000, to remain 
available until September 30, 2018:  Provided, That of this amount, not 
to exceed $89,830,000 shall be available for study, planning, design, 
and architect and engineer services, as authorized by law, unless the 
Secretary of Navy determines that additional obligations are necessary 
for such purposes and notifies the Committees on Appropriations of both 
Houses of Congress of the determination and the reasons 
therefor.</DELETED>

          <DELETED>Military Construction, Air Force</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For acquisition, construction, installation, and equipment 
of temporary or permanent public works, military installations, 
facilities, and real property for the Air Force as currently authorized 
by law, $1,127,273,000, to remain available until September 30, 2018:  
Provided, That of this amount, not to exceed $11,314,000 shall be 
available for study, planning, design, and architect and engineer 
services, as authorized by law, unless the Secretary of Air Force 
determines that additional obligations are necessary for such purposes 
and notifies the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of 
Congress of the determination and the reasons therefor.</DELETED>

         <DELETED>Military Construction, Defense-Wide</DELETED>

            <DELETED>(including transfer of funds)</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For acquisition, construction, installation, and equipment 
of temporary or permanent public works, installations, facilities, and 
real property for activities and agencies of the Department of Defense 
(other than the military departments), as currently authorized by law, 
$3,707,923,000, to remain available until September 30, 2018:  
Provided, That such amounts of this appropriation as may be determined 
by the Secretary of Defense may be transferred to such appropriations 
of the Department of Defense available for military construction or 
family housing as the Secretary may designate, to be merged with and to 
be available for the same purposes, and for the same time period, as 
the appropriation or fund to which transferred:  Provided further, That 
of the amount appropriated, not to exceed $237,838,000 shall be 
available for study, planning, design, and architect and engineer 
services, as authorized by law, unless the Secretary of Defense 
determines that additional obligations are necessary for such purposes 
and notifies the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of 
Congress of the determination and the reasons therefor:  Provided 
further, That of the amount appropriated, notwithstanding any other 
provision of law, $38,513,000 shall be available for payments to the 
North Atlantic Treaty Organization for the planning, design, and 
construction of a new North Atlantic Treaty Organization 
headquarters.</DELETED>

     <DELETED>Military Construction, Army National Guard</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For construction, acquisition, expansion, rehabilitation, 
and conversion of facilities for the training and administration of the 
Army National Guard, and contributions therefor, as authorized by law, 
$315,815,000, to remain available until September 30, 2018:  Provided, 
That of the amount appropriated, not to exceed $24,005,000 shall be 
available for study, planning, design, and architect and engineer 
services, as authorized by law, unless the Director of the Army 
National Guard determines that additional obligations are necessary for 
such purposes and notifies the Committees on Appropriations of both 
Houses of Congress of the determination and the reasons 
therefor.</DELETED>

      <DELETED>Military Construction, Air National Guard</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For construction, acquisition, expansion, rehabilitation, 
and conversion of facilities for the training and administration of the 
Air National Guard, and contributions therefor, as authorized by law, 
$107,800,000, to remain available until September 30, 2018:  Provided, 
That of the amount appropriated, not to exceed $13,400,000 shall be 
available for study, planning, design, and architect and engineer 
services, as authorized by law, unless the Director of the Air National 
Guard determines that additional obligations are necessary for such 
purposes and notifies the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses 
of Congress of the determination and the reasons therefor.</DELETED>

         <DELETED>Military Construction, Army Reserve</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For construction, acquisition, expansion, rehabilitation, 
and conversion of facilities for the training and administration of the 
Army Reserve as authorized by law, $174,060,000, to remain available 
until September 30, 2018:  Provided, That of the amount appropriated, 
not to exceed $14,212,000 shall be available for study, planning, 
design, and architect and engineer services, as authorized by law, 
unless the Chief of the Army Reserve determines that additional 
obligations are necessary for such purposes and notifies the Committees 
on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress of the determination and 
the reasons therefor.</DELETED>

         <DELETED>Military Construction, Navy Reserve</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For construction, acquisition, expansion, rehabilitation, 
and conversion of facilities for the training and administration of the 
reserve components of the Navy and Marine Corps as authorized by law, 
$32,976,000, to remain available until September 30, 2018:  Provided, 
That of the amount appropriated, not to exceed $2,540,000 shall be 
available for study, planning, design, and architect and engineer 
services, as authorized by law, unless the Secretary of Navy determines 
that additional obligations are necessary for such purposes and 
notifies the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress of 
the determination and the reasons therefor.</DELETED>

      <DELETED>Military Construction, Air Force Reserve</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For construction, acquisition, expansion, rehabilitation, 
and conversion of facilities for the training and administration of the 
Air Force Reserve as authorized by law, $45,659,000, to remain 
available until September 30, 2018:  Provided, That of the amount 
appropriated, not to exceed $2,229,000 shall be available for study, 
planning, design, and architect and engineer services, as authorized by 
law, unless the Chief of the Air Force Reserve determines that 
additional obligations are necessary for such purposes and notifies the 
Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress of the 
determination and the reasons therefor.</DELETED>

         <DELETED>North Atlantic Treaty Organization</DELETED>

             <DELETED>Security Investment Program</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For the United States share of the cost of the North 
Atlantic Treaty Organization Security Investment Program for the 
acquisition and construction of military facilities and installations 
(including international military headquarters) and for related 
expenses for the collective defense of the North Atlantic Treaty Area 
as authorized by section 2806 of title 10, United States Code, and 
Military Construction Authorization Acts, $199,700,000, to remain 
available until expended.</DELETED>

          <DELETED>Family Housing Construction, Army</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For expenses of family housing for the Army for 
construction, including acquisition, replacement, addition, expansion, 
extension, and alteration, as authorized by law, $44,008,000, to remain 
available until September 30, 2018.</DELETED>

   <DELETED>Family Housing Operation and Maintenance, Army</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For expenses of family housing for the Army for operation 
and maintenance, including debt payment, leasing, minor construction, 
principal and interest charges, and insurance premiums, as authorized 
by law, $512,871,000.</DELETED>

 <DELETED>Family Housing Construction, Navy and Marine Corps</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For expenses of family housing for the Navy and Marine 
Corps for construction, including acquisition, replacement, addition, 
expansion, extension, and alteration, as authorized by law, 
$73,407,000, to remain available until September 30, 2018.</DELETED>

  <DELETED>Family Housing Operation and Maintenance, Navy and Marine 
                            Corps</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For expenses of family housing for the Navy and Marine 
Corps for operation and maintenance, including debt payment, leasing, 
minor construction, principal and interest charges, and insurance 
premiums, as authorized by law, $389,844,000.</DELETED>

       <DELETED>Family Housing Construction, Air Force</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For expenses of family housing for the Air Force for 
construction, including acquisition, replacement, addition, expansion, 
extension, and alteration, as authorized by law, $76,360,000, to remain 
available until September 30, 2018.</DELETED>

 <DELETED>Family Housing Operation and Maintenance, Air Force</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For expenses of family housing for the Air Force for 
operation and maintenance, including debt payment, leasing, minor 
construction, principal and interest charges, and insurance premiums, 
as authorized by law, $388,598,000.</DELETED>

      <DELETED>Family Housing Operation and Maintenance, Defense-
                             Wide</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For expenses of family housing for the activities and 
agencies of the Department of Defense (other than the military 
departments) for operation and maintenance, leasing, and minor 
construction, as authorized by law, $55,845,000.</DELETED>

       <DELETED>Department of Defense Family Housing Improvement 
                             Fund</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For the Department of Defense Family Housing Improvement 
Fund, $1,780,000, to remain available until expended, for family 
housing initiatives undertaken pursuant to section 2883 of title 10, 
United States Code, providing alternative means of acquiring and 
improving military family housing and supporting facilities.</DELETED>

<DELETED>Chemical Demilitarization Construction, Defense-Wide</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For expenses of construction, not otherwise provided for, 
necessary for the destruction of the United States stockpile of lethal 
chemical agents and munitions in accordance with section 1412 of the 
Department of Defense Authorization Act, 1986 (50 U.S.C. 1521), and for 
the destruction of other chemical warfare materials that are not in the 
chemical weapon stockpile, as currently authorized by law, 
$122,536,000, to remain available until September 30, 2018, which shall 
be only for the Assembled Chemical Weapons Alternatives 
program.</DELETED>

     <DELETED>Department of Defense Base Closure Account</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For deposit into the Department of Defense Base Closure 
Account, established by section 2906(a) of the Defense Base Closure and 
Realignment Act of 1990 (10 U.S.C. 2687 note), as amended by section 
2711 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2013 
(Public Law 112-239), $451,357,000, to remain available until 
expended.</DELETED>

              <DELETED>Administrative Provisions</DELETED>

<DELETED>    Sec. 101.  None of the funds made available in this title 
shall be expended for payments under a cost-plus-a-fixed-fee contract 
for construction, where cost estimates exceed $25,000, to be performed 
within the United States, except Alaska, without the specific approval 
in writing of the Secretary of Defense setting forth the reasons 
therefor.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 102.  Funds made available in this title for 
construction shall be available for hire of passenger motor 
vehicles.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 103.  Funds made available in this title for 
construction may be used for advances to the Federal Highway 
Administration, Department of Transportation, for the construction of 
access roads as authorized by section 210 of title 23, United States 
Code, when projects authorized therein are certified as important to 
the national defense by the Secretary of Defense.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 104.  None of the funds made available in this title 
may be used to begin construction of new bases in the United States for 
which specific appropriations have not been made.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 105.  None of the funds made available in this title 
shall be used for purchase of land or land easements in excess of 100 
percent of the value as determined by the Army Corps of Engineers or 
the Naval Facilities Engineering Command, except: (1) where there is a 
determination of value by a Federal court; (2) purchases negotiated by 
the Attorney General or the designee of the Attorney General; (3) where 
the estimated value is less than $25,000; or (4) as otherwise 
determined by the Secretary of Defense to be in the public 
interest.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 106.  None of the funds made available in this title 
shall be used to: (1) acquire land; (2) provide for site preparation; 
or (3) install utilities for any family housing, except housing for 
which funds have been made available in annual Acts making 
appropriations for military construction.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 107.  None of the funds made available in this title 
for minor construction may be used to transfer or relocate any activity 
from one base or installation to another, without prior notification to 
the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 108.  None of the funds made available in this title 
may be used for the procurement of steel for any construction project 
or activity for which American steel producers, fabricators, and 
manufacturers have been denied the opportunity to compete for such 
steel procurement.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 109.  None of the funds available to the Department 
of Defense for military construction or family housing during the 
current fiscal year may be used to pay real property taxes in any 
foreign nation.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 110.  None of the funds made available in this title 
may be used to initiate a new installation overseas without prior 
notification to the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of 
Congress.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 111.  None of the funds made available in this title 
may be obligated for architect and engineer contracts estimated by the 
Government to exceed $500,000 for projects to be accomplished in Japan, 
in any North Atlantic Treaty Organization member country, or in 
countries bordering the Arabian Sea, unless such contracts are awarded 
to United States firms or United States firms in joint venture with 
host nation firms.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 112.  None of the funds made available in this title 
for military construction in the United States territories and 
possessions in the Pacific and on Kwajalein Atoll, or in countries 
within the United States Central Command Area of Responsibility, may be 
used to award any contract estimated by the Government to exceed 
$1,000,000 to a foreign contractor:  Provided, That this section shall 
not be applicable to contract awards for which the lowest responsive 
and responsible bid of a United States contractor exceeds the lowest 
responsive and responsible bid of a foreign contractor by greater than 
20 percent:  Provided further, That this section shall not apply to 
contract awards for military construction on Kwajalein Atoll for which 
the lowest responsive and responsible bid is submitted by a Marshallese 
contractor.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 113.  The Secretary of Defense shall inform the 
appropriate committees of both Houses of Congress, including the 
Committees on Appropriations, of plans and scope of any proposed 
military exercise involving United States personnel 30 days prior to 
its occurring, if amounts expended for construction, either temporary 
or permanent, are anticipated to exceed $100,000.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 114.  Funds appropriated to the Department of Defense 
for construction in prior years shall be available for construction 
authorized for each such military department by the authorizations 
enacted into law during the current session of Congress.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 115.  For military construction or family housing 
projects that are being completed with funds otherwise expired or 
lapsed for obligation, expired or lapsed funds may be used to pay the 
cost of associated supervision, inspection, overhead, engineering and 
design on those projects and on subsequent claims, if any.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 116.  Notwithstanding any other provision of law, any 
funds made available to a military department or defense agency for the 
construction of military projects may be obligated for a military 
construction project or contract, or for any portion of such a project 
or contract, at any time before the end of the fourth fiscal year after 
the fiscal year for which funds for such project were made available, 
if the funds obligated for such project: (1) are obligated from funds 
available for military construction projects; and (2) do not exceed the 
amount appropriated for such project, plus any amount by which the cost 
of such project is increased pursuant to law.</DELETED>

            <DELETED>(including transfer of funds)</DELETED>

<DELETED>    Sec. 117.  In addition to any other transfer authority 
available to the Department of Defense, proceeds deposited to the 
Department of Defense Base Closure Account established by section 
207(a)(1) of the Defense Authorization Amendments and Base Closure and 
Realignment Act (10 U.S.C. 2687 note) pursuant to section 207(a)(2)(C) 
of such Act, may be transferred to the account established by section 
2906(a)(1) of the Defense Base Closure and Realignment Act of 1990 (10 
U.S.C. 2687 note), to be merged with, and to be available for the same 
purposes and the same time period as that account.</DELETED>

            <DELETED>(including transfer of funds)</DELETED>

<DELETED>    Sec. 118.  Subject to 30 days prior notification, or 14 
days for a notification provided in an electronic medium pursuant to 
sections 480 and 2883 of title 10, United States Code, to the 
Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress, such 
additional amounts as may be determined by the Secretary of Defense may 
be transferred to: (1) the Department of Defense Family Housing 
Improvement Fund from amounts appropriated for construction in ``Family 
Housing'' accounts, to be merged with and to be available for the same 
purposes and for the same period of time as amounts appropriated 
directly to the Fund; or (2) the Department of Defense Military 
Unaccompanied Housing Improvement Fund from amounts appropriated for 
construction of military unaccompanied housing in ``Military 
Construction'' accounts, to be merged with and to be available for the 
same purposes and for the same period of time as amounts appropriated 
directly to the Fund:  Provided, That appropriations made available to 
the Funds shall be available to cover the costs, as defined in section 
502(5) of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974, of direct loans or loan 
guarantees issued by the Department of Defense pursuant to the 
provisions of subchapter IV of chapter 169 of title 10, United States 
Code, pertaining to alternative means of acquiring and improving 
military family housing, military unaccompanied housing, and supporting 
facilities.</DELETED>

            <DELETED>(including transfer of funds)</DELETED>

<DELETED>    Sec. 119.  In addition to any other transfer authority 
available to the Department of Defense, amounts may be transferred from 
the accounts established by sections 2906(a)(1) and 2906A(a)(1) of the 
Defense Base Closure and Realignment Act of 1990 (10 U.S.C. 2687 note), 
to the fund established by section 1013(d) of the Demonstration Cities 
and Metropolitan Development Act of 1966 (42 U.S.C. 3374) to pay for 
expenses associated with the Homeowners Assistance Program incurred 
under 42 U.S.C. 3374(a)(1)(A). Any amounts transferred shall be merged 
with and be available for the same purposes and for the same time 
period as the fund to which transferred.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 120.  Notwithstanding any other provision of law, 
funds made available in this title for operation and maintenance of 
family housing shall be the exclusive source of funds for repair and 
maintenance of all family housing units, including general or flag 
officer quarters:  Provided, That not more than $15,000 per unit may be 
spent annually for the maintenance and repair of any general or flag 
officer quarters without 30 days prior notification, or 14 days for a 
notification provided in an electronic medium pursuant to sections 480 
and 2883 of title 10, United States Code, to the Committees on 
Appropriations of both Houses of Congress, except that an after-the-
fact notification shall be submitted if the limitation is exceeded 
solely due to costs associated with environmental remediation that 
could not be reasonably anticipated at the time of the budget 
submission:  Provided further, That the Under Secretary of Defense 
(Comptroller) is to report annually to the Committees on Appropriations 
of both Houses of Congress all operation and maintenance expenditures 
for each individual general or flag officer quarters for the prior 
fiscal year.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 121.  Amounts contained in the Ford Island 
Improvement Account established by subsection (h) of section 2814 of 
title 10, United States Code, are appropriated and shall be available 
until expended for the purposes specified in subsection (i)(1) of such 
section or until transferred pursuant to subsection (i)(3) of such 
section.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 122.  None of the funds made available in this title, 
or in any Act making appropriations for military construction which 
remain available for obligation, may be obligated or expended to carry 
out a military construction, land acquisition, or family housing 
project at or for a military installation approved for closure, or at a 
military installation for the purposes of supporting a function that 
has been approved for realignment to another installation, in 2005 
under the Defense Base Closure and Realignment Act of 1990 (part A of 
title XXIX of Public Law 101-510; 10 U.S.C. 2687 note), unless such a 
project at a military installation approved for realignment will 
support a continuing mission or function at that installation or a new 
mission or function that is planned for that installation, or unless 
the Secretary of Defense certifies that the cost to the United States 
of carrying out such project would be less than the cost to the United 
States of cancelling such project, or if the project is at an active 
component base that shall be established as an enclave or in the case 
of projects having multi-agency use, that another Government agency has 
indicated it will assume ownership of the completed project. The 
Secretary of Defense may not transfer funds made available as a result 
of this limitation from any military construction project, land 
acquisition, or family housing project to another account or use such 
funds for another purpose or project without the prior approval of the 
Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress. This section 
shall not apply to military construction projects, land acquisition, or 
family housing projects for which the project is vital to the national 
security or the protection of health, safety, or environmental quality: 
 Provided, That the Secretary of Defense shall notify the congressional 
defense committees within seven days of a decision to carry out such a 
military construction project.</DELETED>

            <DELETED>(including transfer of funds)</DELETED>

<DELETED>    Sec. 123.  During the 5-year period after appropriations 
available in this Act to the Department of Defense for military 
construction and family housing operation and maintenance and 
construction have expired for obligation, upon a determination that 
such appropriations will not be necessary for the liquidation of 
obligations or for making authorized adjustments to such appropriations 
for obligations incurred during the period of availability of such 
appropriations, unobligated balances of such appropriations may be 
transferred into the appropriation ``Foreign Currency Fluctuations, 
Construction, Defense'', to be merged with and to be available for the 
same time period and for the same purposes as the appropriation to 
which transferred.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 124.  None of the funds made available by this Act 
may be used for any action that relates to or promotes the expansion of 
the boundaries or size of the Pinon Canyon Maneuver Site, 
Colorado.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 125. (a) Except as provided in subsection (b), none 
of the funds made available in this Act may be used by the Secretary of 
the Army to relocate a unit in the Army that--</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    (1) performs a testing mission or function that is 
        not performed by any other unit in the Army and is specifically 
        stipulated in title 10, United States Code; and</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    (2) is located at a military installation at which 
        the total number of civilian employees of the Department of the 
        Army and Army contractor personnel employed exceeds 10 percent 
        of the total number of members of the regular and reserve 
        components of the Army assigned to the installation.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    (b) Exception.--Subsection (a) shall not apply if the 
Secretary of the Army certifies to the congressional defense committees 
that in proposing the relocation of the unit of the Army, the Secretary 
complied with Army Regulation 5-10 relating to the policy, procedures, 
and responsibilities for Army stationing actions.</DELETED>

           <DELETED>(including rescission of funds)</DELETED>

<DELETED>    Sec. 126.  Of the unobligated balances available for 
``Military Construction, Army'', from prior appropriations Acts (other 
than appropriations designated by law as being for contingency 
operations directly related to the global war on terrorism or as an 
emergency requirement), $89,000,000 are hereby rescinded.</DELETED>

           <DELETED>(including rescission of funds)</DELETED>

<DELETED>    Sec. 127.  Of the unobligated balances available for 
``Military Construction, Navy and Marine Corps'', from prior 
appropriations Acts (other than appropriations designated by law as 
being for contingency operations directly related to the global war on 
terrorism or as an emergency requirement), $49,920,000 are hereby 
rescinded.</DELETED>

           <DELETED>(including rescission of funds)</DELETED>

<DELETED>    Sec. 128.  Of the unobligated balances available for 
``Military Construction, Defense-Wide'', from prior appropriations Acts 
(other than appropriations designated by law as being for contingency 
operations directly related to the global war on terrorism or as an 
emergency requirement), $358,400,000 are hereby rescinded.</DELETED>

           <DELETED>(including rescission of funds)</DELETED>

<DELETED>    Sec. 129.  Of the unobligated balances available for 
``Military Construction, Army'', from prior appropriations Acts (other 
than appropriations designated by law as being for contingency 
operations directly related to the global war on terrorism or as an 
emergency requirement), $50,000,000 are hereby rescinded.</DELETED>

           <DELETED>(including rescission of funds)</DELETED>

<DELETED>    Sec. 130.  Of the unobligated balances available for 
``Military Construction, Defense-Wide'', from prior appropriations Acts 
(other than appropriations designated by law as being for contingency 
operations directly related to the global war on terrorism or as an 
emergency requirement), $16,470,000 are hereby rescinded.</DELETED>

           <DELETED>(including rescission of funds)</DELETED>

<DELETED>    Sec. 131.  Of the unobligated balances available for 
``Military Construction, Air National Guard'', from prior 
appropriations Acts (other than appropriations designated by law as 
being for contingency operations directly related to the global war on 
terrorism or as an emergency requirement), $45,623,000 are hereby 
rescinded.</DELETED>

           <DELETED>(including rescission of funds)</DELETED>

<DELETED>    Sec. 132.  Of the unobligated balances made available in 
prior appropriation Acts for the fund established in section 1013(d) of 
the Demonstration Cities and Metropolitan Development Act of 1966 (42 
U.S.C. 3374) (other than appropriations designated by law as being for 
contingency operations directly related to the global war on terrorism 
or as an emergency requirement), $50,000,000 are hereby 
rescinded.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 133.  Discretionary appropriations in this title are 
hereby reduced by $4,668,000.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 134.  Notwithstanding section 116, the Secretary of 
Army may obligate from any available military construction funds such 
additional funds that the Secretary determines are necessary to 
complete the Explosive Research and Development Loading Facility, 
Picatinny Arsenal, New Jersey.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 135.  For an additional amount for ``Military 
Construction, Navy and Marine Corps'', $75,000,000, to remain available 
until September 30, 2018:  Provided, That notwithstanding any other 
provision of law, such funds may be obligated and expended to carry out 
planning and design and construction of projects that: (1) are of 
critical importance to the Armed Forces; (2) will be conducted within 
the 50 States; and (3) were contained in the fiscal year 2014 portion 
of the future-years defense program submitted to Congress under section 
221 of title 10, United States Code, for fiscal years 2013 through 2017 
and are also contained in the fiscal year 2015 portion of the future-
years defense program submitted under such section for fiscal years 
2014 through 2018:  Provided further, That not later than 30 days after 
the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall 
submit to the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress 
an expenditure plan for funds provided under this heading.</DELETED>

                      <DELETED>TITLE II</DELETED>

           <DELETED>DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS AFFAIRS</DELETED>

          <DELETED>Veterans Benefits Administration</DELETED>

              <DELETED>compensation and pensions</DELETED>

            <DELETED>(including transfer of funds)</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For the payment of compensation benefits to or on behalf 
of veterans and a pilot program for disability examinations as 
authorized by section 107 and chapters 11, 13, 18, 51, 53, 55, and 61 
of title 38, United States Code; pension benefits to or on behalf of 
veterans as authorized by chapters 15, 51, 53, 55, and 61 of title 38, 
United States Code; and burial benefits, the Reinstated Entitlement 
Program for Survivors, emergency and other officers' retirement pay, 
adjusted-service credits and certificates, payment of premiums due on 
commercial life insurance policies guaranteed under the provisions of 
title IV of the Servicemembers Civil Relief Act (50 U.S.C. App. 541 et 
seq.) and for other benefits as authorized by sections 107, 1312, 1977, 
and 2106, and chapters 23, 51, 53, 55, and 61 of title 38, United 
States Code, $71,248,171,000, to remain available until expended:  
Provided, That not to exceed $9,232,000 of the amount appropriated 
under this heading shall be reimbursed to ``General Operating Expenses, 
Veterans Benefits Administration'' and ``Information Technology 
Systems'' for necessary expenses in implementing the provisions of 
chapters 51, 53, and 55 of title 38, United States Code, the funding 
source for which is specifically provided as the ``Compensation and 
Pensions'' appropriation:  Provided further, That such sums as may be 
earned on an actual qualifying patient basis, shall be reimbursed to 
``Medical Care Collections Fund'' to augment the funding of individual 
medical facilities for nursing home care provided to pensioners as 
authorized.</DELETED>

                <DELETED>readjustment benefits</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For the payment of readjustment and rehabilitation 
benefits to or on behalf of veterans as authorized by chapters 21, 30, 
31, 33, 34, 35, 36, 39, 41, 51, 53, 55, and 61 of title 38, United 
States Code, and for the payment of benefits under the Veterans 
Retraining Assistance Program, $13,135,898,000, to remain available 
until expended:  Provided, That expenses for rehabilitation program 
services and assistance which the Secretary is authorized to provide 
under subsection (a) of section 3104 of title 38, United States Code, 
other than under paragraphs (1), (2), (5), and (11) of that subsection, 
shall be charged to this account.</DELETED>

         <DELETED>veterans insurance and indemnities</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For military and naval insurance, national service life 
insurance, servicemen's indemnities, service-disabled veterans 
insurance, and veterans mortgage life insurance as authorized by 
chapters 19 and 21, title 38, United States Code, $77,567,000, to 
remain available until expended.</DELETED>

        <DELETED>veterans housing benefit program fund</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For the cost of direct and guaranteed loans, such sums as 
may be necessary to carry out the program, as authorized by subchapters 
I through III of chapter 37 of title 38, United States Code:  Provided, 
That such costs, including the cost of modifying such loans, shall be 
as defined in section 502 of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974:  
Provided further, That during fiscal year 2014, within the resources 
available, not to exceed $500,000 in gross obligations for direct loans 
are authorized for specially adapted housing loans.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    In addition, for administrative expenses to carry out the 
direct and guaranteed loan programs, $158,430,000.</DELETED>

   <DELETED>vocational rehabilitation loans program account</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For the cost of direct loans, $5,000, as authorized by 
chapter 31 of title 38, United States Code:  Provided, That such costs, 
including the cost of modifying such loans, shall be as defined in 
section 502 of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974:  Provided further, 
That funds made available under this heading are available to subsidize 
gross obligations for the principal amount of direct loans not to 
exceed $2,500,000.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    In addition, for administrative expenses necessary to 
carry out the direct loan program, $354,000, which may be paid to the 
appropriation for ``General Operating Expenses, Veterans Benefits 
Administration''.</DELETED>

<DELETED>native american veteran housing loan program account</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For administrative expenses to carry out the direct loan 
program authorized by subchapter V of chapter 37 of title 38, United 
States Code, $1,109,000.</DELETED>

           <DELETED>Veterans Health Administration</DELETED>

                  <DELETED>medical services</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For necessary expenses for furnishing, as authorized by 
law, inpatient and outpatient care and treatment to beneficiaries of 
the Department of Veterans Affairs and veterans described in section 
1705(a) of title 38, United States Code, including care and treatment 
in facilities not under the jurisdiction of the Department, and 
including medical supplies and equipment, bioengineering services, food 
services, and salaries and expenses of health care employees hired 
under title 38, United States Code, aid to State homes as authorized by 
section 1741 of title 38, United States Code, assistance and support 
services for caregivers as authorized by section 1720G of title 38, 
United States Code, loan repayments authorized by section 604 of the 
Caregivers and Veterans Omnibus Health Services Act of 2010 (Public Law 
111-163; 124 Stat. 1174; 38 U.S.C. 7681 note), and hospital care and 
medical services authorized by section 1787 of title 38, United States 
Code, $45,015,527,000, plus reimbursements, shall become available on 
October 1, 2014, and shall remain available until September 30, 2015:  
Provided, That notwithstanding any other provision of law, the 
Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall establish a priority for the 
provision of medical treatment for veterans who have service-connected 
disabilities, lower income, or have special needs:  Provided further, 
That notwithstanding any other provision of law, the Secretary of 
Veterans Affairs shall give priority funding for the provision of basic 
medical benefits to veterans in enrollment priority groups 1 through 6: 
 Provided further, That notwithstanding any other provision of law, the 
Secretary of Veterans Affairs may authorize the dispensing of 
prescription drugs from Veterans Health Administration facilities to 
enrolled veterans with privately written prescriptions based on 
requirements established by the Secretary:  Provided further, That the 
implementation of the program described in the previous proviso shall 
incur no additional cost to the Department of Veterans 
Affairs.</DELETED>

           <DELETED>medical support and compliance</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For necessary expenses in the administration of the 
medical, hospital, nursing home, domiciliary, construction, supply, and 
research activities, as authorized by law; administrative expenses in 
support of capital policy activities; and administrative and legal 
expenses of the Department for collecting and recovering amounts owed 
the Department as authorized under chapter 17 of title 38, United 
States Code, and the Federal Medical Care Recovery Act (42 U.S.C. 2651 
et seq.), $5,879,700,000, plus reimbursements, shall become available 
on October 1, 2014, and shall remain available until September 30, 
2015.</DELETED>

                 <DELETED>medical facilities</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For necessary expenses for the maintenance and operation 
of hospitals, nursing homes, domiciliary facilities, and other 
necessary facilities of the Veterans Health Administration; for 
administrative expenses in support of planning, design, project 
management, real property acquisition and disposition, construction, 
and renovation of any facility under the jurisdiction or for the use of 
the Department; for oversight, engineering, and architectural 
activities not charged to project costs; for repairing, altering, 
improving, or providing facilities in the several hospitals and homes 
under the jurisdiction of the Department, not otherwise provided for, 
either by contract or by the hire of temporary employees and purchase 
of materials; for leases of facilities; and for laundry services, 
$4,739,000,000, plus reimbursements, shall become available on October 
1, 2014, and shall remain available until September 30, 2015.</DELETED>

           <DELETED>medical and prosthetic research</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For necessary expenses in carrying out programs of medical 
and prosthetic research and development as authorized by chapter 73 of 
title 38, United States Code, $585,664,000 (reduced by $35,000,000) 
(increased by $35,000,000), plus reimbursements, shall remain available 
until September 30, 2015.</DELETED>

          <DELETED>National Cemetery Administration</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For necessary expenses of the National Cemetery 
Administration for operations and maintenance, not otherwise provided 
for, including uniforms or allowances therefor; cemeterial expenses as 
authorized by law; purchase of one passenger motor vehicle for use in 
cemeterial operations; hire of passenger motor vehicles; and repair, 
alteration or improvement of facilities under the jurisdiction of the 
National Cemetery Administration, $250,000,000, of which not to exceed 
$25,000,000 shall remain available until September 30, 2015.</DELETED>

             <DELETED>Departmental Administration</DELETED>

               <DELETED>general administration</DELETED>

            <DELETED>(including transfer of funds)</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For necessary operating expenses of the Department of 
Veterans Affairs, not otherwise provided for, including administrative 
expenses in support of Department-Wide capital planning, management and 
policy activities, uniforms, or allowances therefor; not to exceed 
$25,000 for official reception and representation expenses; hire of 
passenger motor vehicles; and reimbursement of the General Services 
Administration for security guard services, $403,023,000, of which not 
to exceed $20,151,000 shall remain available until September 30, 2015:  
Provided, That funds provided under this heading may be transferred to 
``General Operating Expenses, Veterans Benefits 
Administration''.</DELETED>

        <DELETED>general operating expenses, veterans benefits 
                        administration</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For necessary operating expenses of the Veterans Benefits 
Administration, not otherwise provided for, including hire of passenger 
motor vehicles, reimbursement of the General Services Administration 
for security guard services, and reimbursement of the Department of 
Defense for the cost of overseas employee mail, $2,455,490,000 (reduced 
by $5,000,000) (increased by $5,000,000) (reduced by $44,000,000) 
(increased by $44,000,000):  Provided, That expenses for services and 
assistance authorized under paragraphs (1), (2), (5), and (11) of 
section 3104(a) of title 38, United States Code, that the Secretary of 
Veterans Affairs determines are necessary to enable entitled veterans: 
(1) to the maximum extent feasible, to become employable and to obtain 
and maintain suitable employment; or (2) to achieve maximum 
independence in daily living, shall be charged to this account:  
Provided further, That of the funds made available under this heading, 
not to exceed $123,000,000 shall remain available until September 30, 
2015.</DELETED>

           <DELETED>information technology systems</DELETED>

            <DELETED>(including transfer of funds)</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For necessary expenses for information technology systems 
and telecommunications support, including developmental information 
systems and operational information systems; for pay and associated 
costs; and for the capital asset acquisition of information technology 
systems, including management and related contractual costs of said 
acquisitions, including contractual costs associated with operations 
authorized by section 3109 of title 5, United States Code, 
$3,683,344,000, plus reimbursements:  Provided, That $1,026,400,000 
shall be for pay and associated costs, of which not to exceed 
$30,792,000 shall remain available until September 30, 2015:  Provided 
further, That $2,161,653,000 shall be for operations and maintenance, 
of which not to exceed $151,316,000 shall remain available until 
September 30, 2015:  Provided further, That $495,291,000 shall be for 
information technology systems development, modernization, and 
enhancement, and shall remain available until September 30, 2015:  
Provided further, That amounts made available for information 
technology systems development, modernization, and enhancement may not 
be obligated or expended until the Secretary of Veterans Affairs or the 
Chief Information Officer of the Department of Veterans Affairs submits 
to the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress a 
certification of the amounts, in parts or in full, to be obligated and 
expended for each development project:  Provided further, That amounts 
made available for salaries and expenses, operations and maintenance, 
and information technology systems development, modernization, and 
enhancement may be transferred among the three sub-accounts after the 
Secretary of Veterans Affairs requests from the Committees on 
Appropriations of both Houses of Congress the authority to make the 
transfer and an approval is issued:  Provided further, That amounts 
made available for the ``Information Technology Systems'' account for 
development, modernization, and enhancement may be transferred among 
projects or to newly defined projects:  Provided further, That no 
project may be increased or decreased by more than $1,000,000 of cost 
prior to submitting a request to the Committees on Appropriations of 
both Houses of Congress to make the transfer and an approval is issued, 
or absent a response, a period of 30 days has elapsed:  Provided 
further, That none of the funds made available under this heading may 
be obligated or expended for the development or procurement of an 
electronic health record except for a health record as set forth in the 
Joint Strategic Plan for Fiscal Years 2013-2015 of the Department of 
Veteran Affairs and Department of Defense, Joint Executive Council:  
Provided further, That the funds made available under this heading for 
information technology systems development, modernization, and 
enhancement, shall be for the projects, and in the amounts, specified 
under this heading in the report accompanying this Act.</DELETED>

             <DELETED>office of inspector general</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For necessary expenses of the Office of Inspector General, 
to include information technology, in carrying out the provisions of 
the Inspector General Act of 1978 (5 U.S.C. App.), $116,411,000, of 
which $6,000,000 shall remain available until September 30, 
2015.</DELETED>

            <DELETED>construction, major projects</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For constructing, altering, extending, and improving any 
of the facilities, including parking projects, under the jurisdiction 
or for the use of the Department of Veterans Affairs, or for any of the 
purposes set forth in sections 316, 2404, 2406, and chapter 81 of title 
38, United States Code, not otherwise provided for, including planning, 
architectural and engineering services, construction management 
services, maintenance or guarantee period services costs associated 
with equipment guarantees provided under the project, services of 
claims analysts, offsite utility and storm drainage system construction 
costs, and site acquisition, where the estimated cost of a project is 
more than the amount set forth in section 8104(a)(3)(A) of title 38, 
United States Code, or where funds for a project were made available in 
a previous major project appropriation, $342,130,000, of which 
$322,130,000 shall remain available until September 30, 2018, and of 
which $20,000,000 shall remain available until expended:  Provided 
further, That except for advance planning activities, including needs 
assessments which may or may not lead to capital investments, and other 
capital asset management related activities, including portfolio 
development and management activities, and investment strategy studies 
funded through the advance planning fund and the planning and design 
activities funded through the design fund, including needs assessments 
which may or may not lead to capital investments, and salaries and 
associated costs of the resident engineers who oversee those capital 
investments funded through this account, and funds provided for the 
purchase of land for the National Cemetery Administration through the 
land acquisition line item, none of the funds made available under this 
heading shall be used for any project which has not been approved by 
the Congress in the budgetary process:  Provided further, That funds 
made available under this heading for fiscal year 2014, for each 
approved project shall be obligated: (1) by the awarding of a 
construction documents contract by September 30, 2014; and (2) by the 
awarding of a construction contract by September 30, 2015:  Provided 
further, That the Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall promptly submit 
to the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress a 
written report on any approved major construction project for which 
obligations are not incurred within the time limitations established 
above.</DELETED>

            <DELETED>construction, minor projects</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For constructing, altering, extending, and improving any 
of the facilities, including parking projects, under the jurisdiction 
or for the use of the Department of Veterans Affairs, including 
planning and assessments of needs which may lead to capital 
investments, architectural and engineering services, maintenance or 
guarantee period services costs associated with equipment guarantees 
provided under the project, services of claims analysts, offsite 
utility and storm drainage system construction costs, and site 
acquisition, or for any of the purposes set forth in sections 316, 
2404, 2406, and chapter 81 of title 38, United States Code, not 
otherwise provided for, where the estimated cost of a project is equal 
to or less than the amount set forth in section 8104(a)(3)(A) of title 
38, United States Code, $714,870,000, to remain available until 
September 30, 2018, along with unobligated balances of previous 
``Construction, Minor Projects'' appropriations which are hereby made 
available for any project where the estimated cost is equal to or less 
than the amount set forth in such section:  Provided, That funds made 
available under this heading shall be for: (1) repairs to any of the 
nonmedical facilities under the jurisdiction or for the use of the 
Department which are necessary because of loss or damage caused by any 
natural disaster or catastrophe; and (2) temporary measures necessary 
to prevent or to minimize further loss by such causes.</DELETED>

        <DELETED>grants for construction of state extended care 
                          facilities</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For grants to assist States to acquire or construct State 
nursing home and domiciliary facilities and to remodel, modify, or 
alter existing hospital, nursing home, and domiciliary facilities in 
State homes, for furnishing care to veterans as authorized by sections 
8131 through 8137 of title 38, United States Code, $82,650,000, to 
remain available until expended.</DELETED>

   <DELETED>grants for construction of veterans cemeteries</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For grants to assist States and tribal organizations in 
establishing, expanding, or improving veterans cemeteries as authorized 
by section 2408 of title 38, United States Code, $44,650,000, to remain 
available until expended.</DELETED>

              <DELETED>Administrative Provisions</DELETED>

            <DELETED>(including transfer of funds)</DELETED>

<DELETED>    Sec. 201.  Any appropriation for fiscal year 2014 for 
``Compensation and Pensions'', ``Readjustment Benefits'', and 
``Veterans Insurance and Indemnities'' may be transferred as necessary 
to any other of the mentioned appropriations:  Provided, That before a 
transfer may take place, the Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall 
request from the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of 
Congress the authority to make the transfer and such Committees issue 
an approval, or absent a response, a period of 30 days has 
elapsed.</DELETED>

            <DELETED>(including transfer of funds)</DELETED>

<DELETED>    Sec. 202.  Amounts made available for the Department of 
Veterans Affairs for fiscal year 2014, in this Act or any other Act, 
under the ``Medical Services'', ``Medical Support and Compliance'', and 
``Medical Facilities'' accounts may be transferred among the accounts:  
Provided, That any transfers between the ``Medical Services'' and 
``Medical Support and Compliance'' accounts of 1 percent or less of the 
total amount appropriated to the account in this or any other Act may 
take place subject to notification from the Secretary of Veterans 
Affairs to the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress 
of the amount and purpose of the transfer:  Provided further, That any 
transfers between the ``Medical Services'' and ``Medical Support and 
Compliance'' accounts in excess of 1 percent, or exceeding the 
cumulative 1 percent for the fiscal year, may take place only after the 
Secretary requests from the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses 
of Congress the authority to make the transfer and an approval is 
issued:  Provided further, That any transfers to or from the ``Medical 
Facilities'' account may take place only after the Secretary requests 
from the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress the 
authority to make the transfer and an approval is issued.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 203.  Appropriations available in this title for 
salaries and expenses shall be available for services authorized by 
section 3109 of title 5, United States Code; hire of passenger motor 
vehicles; lease of a facility or land or both; and uniforms or 
allowances therefore, as authorized by sections 5901 through 5902 of 
title 5, United States Code.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 204.  No appropriations in this title (except the 
appropriations for ``Construction, Major Projects'' and ``Construction, 
Minor Projects'') shall be available for the purchase of any site for 
or toward the construction of any new hospital or home.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 205.  No appropriations in this title shall be 
available for hospitalization or examination of any persons (except 
beneficiaries entitled to such hospitalization or examination under the 
laws providing such benefits to veterans, and persons receiving such 
treatment under sections 7901 through 7904 of title 5, United States 
Code, or the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency 
Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5121 et seq.)), unless reimbursement of the 
cost of such hospitalization or examination is made to the ``Medical 
Services'' account at such rates as may be fixed by the Secretary of 
Veterans Affairs.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 206.  Appropriations available in this title for 
``Compensation and Pensions'', ``Readjustment Benefits'', and 
``Veterans Insurance and Indemnities'' shall be available for payment 
of prior year accrued obligations required to be recorded by law 
against the corresponding prior year accounts within the last quarter 
of fiscal year 2013.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 207.  Appropriations available in this title shall be 
available to pay prior year obligations of corresponding prior year 
appropriations accounts resulting from sections 3328(a), 3334, and 
3712(a) of title 31, United States Code, except that if such 
obligations are from trust fund accounts they shall be payable only 
from ``Compensation and Pensions''.</DELETED>

            <DELETED>(including transfer of funds)</DELETED>

<DELETED>    Sec. 208.  Notwithstanding any other provision of law, 
during fiscal year 2014, the Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall, from 
the National Service Life Insurance Fund under section 1920 of title 
38, United States Code, the Veterans' Special Life Insurance Fund under 
section 1923 of title 38, United States Code, and the United States 
Government Life Insurance Fund under section 1955 of title 38, United 
States Code, reimburse the ``General Operating Expenses, Veterans 
Benefits Administration'' and ``Information Technology Systems'' 
accounts for the cost of administration of the insurance programs 
financed through those accounts:  Provided, That reimbursement shall be 
made only from the surplus earnings accumulated in such an insurance 
program during fiscal year 2014 that are available for dividends in 
that program after claims have been paid and actuarially determined 
reserves have been set aside:  Provided further, That if the cost of 
administration of such an insurance program exceeds the amount of 
surplus earnings accumulated in that program, reimbursement shall be 
made only to the extent of such surplus earnings:  Provided further, 
That the Secretary shall determine the cost of administration for 
fiscal year 2014 which is properly allocable to the provision of each 
such insurance program and to the provision of any total disability 
income insurance included in that insurance program.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 209.  Amounts deducted from enhanced-use lease 
proceeds to reimburse an account for expenses incurred by that account 
during a prior fiscal year for providing enhanced-use lease services, 
may be obligated during the fiscal year in which the proceeds are 
received.</DELETED>

            <DELETED>(including transfer of funds)</DELETED>

<DELETED>    Sec. 210.  Funds available in this title or funds for 
salaries and other administrative expenses shall also be available to 
reimburse the Office of Resolution Management of the Department of 
Veterans Affairs and the Office of Employment Discrimination Complaint 
Adjudication under section 319 of title 38, United States Code, for all 
services provided at rates which will recover actual costs but not 
exceed $42,904,000 for the Office of Resolution Management and 
$3,360,000 for the Office of Employment and Discrimination Complaint 
Adjudication:  Provided, That payments may be made in advance for 
services to be furnished based on estimated costs:  Provided further, 
That amounts received shall be credited to the ``General 
Administration'' and ``Information Technology Systems'' accounts for 
use by the office that provided the service.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 211.  No appropriations in this title shall be 
available to enter into any new lease of real property if the estimated 
annual rental cost is more than $1,000,000, unless the Secretary 
submits a report which the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses 
of Congress approve within 30 days following the date on which the 
report is received.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 212.  No funds of the Department of Veterans Affairs 
shall be available for hospital care, nursing home care, or medical 
services provided to any person under chapter 17 of title 38, United 
States Code, for a non-service-connected disability described in 
section 1729(a)(2) of such title, unless that person has disclosed to 
the Secretary of Veterans Affairs, in such form as the Secretary may 
require, current, accurate third-party reimbursement information for 
purposes of section 1729 of such title:  Provided, That the Secretary 
may recover, in the same manner as any other debt due the United 
States, the reasonable charges for such care or services from any 
person who does not make such disclosure as required:  Provided 
further, That any amounts so recovered for care or services provided in 
a prior fiscal year may be obligated by the Secretary during the fiscal 
year in which amounts are received.</DELETED>

            <DELETED>(including transfer of funds)</DELETED>

<DELETED>    Sec. 213.  Notwithstanding any other provision of law, 
proceeds or revenues derived from enhanced-use leasing activities 
(including disposal) may be deposited into the ``Construction, Major 
Projects'' and ``Construction, Minor Projects'' accounts and be used 
for construction (including site acquisition and disposition), 
alterations, and improvements of any medical facility under the 
jurisdiction or for the use of the Department of Veterans Affairs. Such 
sums as realized are in addition to the amount provided for in 
``Construction, Major Projects'' and ``Construction, Minor 
Projects''.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 214.  Amounts made available under ``Medical 
Services'' are available--</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    (1) for furnishing recreational facilities, 
        supplies, and equipment; and</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    (2) for funeral expenses, burial expenses, and 
        other expenses incidental to funerals and burials for 
        beneficiaries receiving care in the Department.</DELETED>

            <DELETED>(including transfer of funds)</DELETED>

<DELETED>    Sec. 215.  Such sums as may be deposited to the Medical 
Care Collections Fund pursuant to section 1729A of title 38, United 
States Code, may be transferred to ``Medical Services'', to remain 
available until expended for the purposes of that account.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 216.  The Secretary of Veterans Affairs may enter 
into agreements with Indian tribes and tribal organizations which are 
party to the Alaska Native Health Compact with the Indian Health 
Service, and Indian tribes and tribal organizations serving rural 
Alaska which have entered into contracts with the Indian Health Service 
under the Indian Self Determination and Educational Assistance Act, to 
provide healthcare, including behavioral health and dental care. The 
Secretary shall require participating veterans and facilities to comply 
with all appropriate rules and regulations, as established by the 
Secretary. The term ``rural Alaska'' shall mean those lands sited 
within the external boundaries of the Alaska Native regions specified 
in sections 7(a)(1)-(4) and (7)-(12) of the Alaska Native Claims 
Settlement Act, as amended (43 U.S.C. 1606), and those lands within the 
Alaska Native regions specified in sections 7(a)(5) and 7(a)(6) of the 
Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act, as amended (43 U.S.C. 1606), which 
are not within the boundaries of the Municipality of Anchorage, the 
Fairbanks North Star Borough, the Kenai Peninsula Borough or the 
Matanuska Susitna Borough.</DELETED>

            <DELETED>(including transfer of funds)</DELETED>

<DELETED>    Sec. 217.  Such sums as may be deposited to the Department 
of Veterans Affairs Capital Asset Fund pursuant to section 8118 of 
title 38, United States Code, may be transferred to the ``Construction, 
Major Projects'' and ``Construction, Minor Projects'' accounts, to 
remain available until expended for the purposes of these 
accounts.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 218.  None of the funds made available in this title 
may be used to implement any policy prohibiting the Directors of the 
Veterans Integrated Services Networks from conducting outreach or 
marketing to enroll new veterans within their respective 
Networks.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 219.  The Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall submit 
to the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress a 
quarterly report on the financial status of the Veterans Health 
Administration.</DELETED>

            <DELETED>(including transfer of funds)</DELETED>

<DELETED>    Sec. 220.  Amounts made available under the ``Medical 
Services'', ``Medical Support and Compliance'', ``Medical Facilities'', 
``General Operating Expenses, Veterans Benefits Administration'', 
``General Administration'', and ``National Cemetery Administration'' 
accounts for fiscal year 2014 may be transferred to or from the 
``Information Technology Systems'' account:  Provided, That before a 
transfer may take place, the Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall 
request from the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of 
Congress the authority to make the transfer and an approval is 
issued.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 221.  Of the amounts made available to the Department 
of Veterans Affairs for fiscal year 2014, in this Act or any other Act, 
under the ``Medical Facilities'' account for nonrecurring maintenance, 
not more than 20 percent of the funds made available shall be obligated 
during the last 2 months of that fiscal year:  Provided, That the 
Secretary may waive this requirement after providing written notice to 
the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress.</DELETED>

            <DELETED>(including transfer of funds)</DELETED>

<DELETED>    Sec. 222.  Of the amounts appropriated to the Department 
of Veterans Affairs for fiscal year 2014 for ``Medical Services'', 
``Medical Support and Compliance'', ``Medical Facilities'', 
``Construction, Minor Projects'', and ``Information Technology 
Systems'', up to $254,257,000, plus reimbursements, may be transferred 
to the Joint Department of Defense-Department of Veterans Affairs 
Medical Facility Demonstration Fund, established by section 1704 of the 
National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2010 (Public Law 
111-84; 123 Stat. 3571) and may be used for operation of the facilities 
designated as combined Federal medical facilities as described by 
section 706 of the Duncan Hunter National Defense Authorization Act for 
Fiscal Year 2009 (Public Law 110-417; 122 Stat. 4500):  Provided, That 
additional funds may be transferred from accounts designated in this 
section to the Joint Department of Defense-Department of Veterans 
Affairs Medical Facility Demonstration Fund upon written notification 
by the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to the Committees on 
Appropriations of both Houses of Congress.</DELETED>

            <DELETED>(including transfer of funds)</DELETED>

<DELETED>    Sec. 223.  Such sums as may be deposited to the Medical 
Care Collections Fund pursuant to section 1729A of title 38, United 
States Code, for health care provided at facilities designated as 
combined Federal medical facilities as described by section 706 of the 
Duncan Hunter National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2009 
(Public Law 110-417; 122 Stat. 4500) shall also be available: (1) for 
transfer to the Joint Department of Defense-Department of Veterans 
Affairs Medical Facility Demonstration Fund, established by section 
1704 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2010 
(Public Law 111-84; 123 Stat. 3571); and (2) for operations of the 
facilities designated as combined Federal medical facilities as 
described by section 706 of the Duncan Hunter National Defense 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2009 (Public Law 110-417; 122 Stat. 
4500).</DELETED>

            <DELETED>(including transfer of funds)</DELETED>

<DELETED>    Sec. 224.  Of the amounts available in this title for 
``Medical Services'', ``Medical Support and Compliance'', and ``Medical 
Facilities'', a minimum of $15,000,000, shall be transferred to the 
DOD-VA Health Care Sharing Incentive Fund, as authorized by section 
8111(d) of title 38, United States Code, to remain available until 
expended, for any purpose authorized by section 8111 of title 38, 
United States Code.</DELETED>

          <DELETED>(including rescissions of funds)</DELETED>

<DELETED>    Sec. 225. (a) Of the discretionary funds made available to 
the Department of Veterans Affairs for fiscal year 2014, the following 
amounts which became available on October 1, 2013, are hereby rescinded 
from the following accounts in the amounts specified:</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    (1) ``Department of Veterans Affairs, Medical 
        Services'', $1,400,000,000.</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    (2) ``Department of Veterans Affairs, Medical 
        Support and Compliance'', $100,000,000.</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    (3) ``Department of Veterans Affairs, Medical 
        Facilities'', $250,000,000.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    (b) In addition to amounts provided elsewhere in this Act, 
an additional amount is appropriated to the following accounts in the 
amounts specified to remain available until September 30, 
2015:</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    (1) ``Department of Veterans Affairs, Medical 
        Services'', $1,400,000,000.</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    (2) ``Department of Veterans Affairs, Medical 
        Support and Compliance'', $100,000,000.</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    (3) ``Department of Veterans Affairs, Medical 
        Facilities'', $250,000,000.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 226.  The Secretary of the Department of Veterans 
Affairs shall notify the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of 
Congress of all bid savings in major construction projects that total 
at least $5,000,000, or 5 percent of the programmed amount of the 
project, whichever is less:  Provided, That such notification shall 
occur within 14 days of a contract identifying the programmed amount:  
Provided further, That the Secretary shall notify the Committees on 
Appropriations of both Houses of Congress 14 days prior to the 
obligation of such bid savings and shall describe the anticipated use 
of such savings.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 227.  The scope of work for a project included in 
``Construction, Major Projects'' may not be increased above the scope 
specified for that project in the original justification data provided 
to the Congress as part of the request for appropriations.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 228.  The Secretary of the Department of Veterans 
Affairs shall provide on a quarterly basis to the Committees on 
Appropriations of both Houses of Congress notification of any single 
national outreach and awareness marketing campaign in which obligations 
exceed $2,000,000.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 229.  The Secretary shall submit to the Committees on 
Appropriations of both Houses of Congress a reprogramming request if at 
any point during fiscal year 2014, the funding allocated for a medical 
care initiative identified in the fiscal year 2014 expenditure plan is 
adjusted by more than $25,000,000 from the allocation shown in the 
corresponding congressional budget justification. Such a reprogramming 
request may go forward only if the Committees on Appropriations of both 
Houses of Congress approve the request or if a period of 14 days has 
elapsed.</DELETED>

           <DELETED>(including rescission of funds)</DELETED>

<DELETED>    Sec. 230.  Discretionary fiscal year 2014 appropriations 
in this title are hereby reduced by $24,000,000:  Provided, That the 
Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall allocate this reduction within the 
accounts to which the reduction is applied:  Provided further, That 
$156,000,000 are hereby rescinded from the fiscal year 2014 funds 
appropriated in title II of division E of Public Law 113-6 for 
``Department of Veterans Affairs, Medical Services'', ``Department of 
Veterans Affairs, Medical Support and Compliance'', and ``Department of 
Veterans Affairs, Medical Facilities'':  Provided further, That the 
Secretary shall allocate this rescission among the three 
accounts.</DELETED>

                      <DELETED>TITLE III</DELETED>

                  <DELETED>RELATED AGENCIES</DELETED>

        <DELETED>American Battle Monuments Commission</DELETED>

                <DELETED>salaries and expenses</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For necessary expenses, not otherwise provided for, of the 
American Battle Monuments Commission, including the acquisition of land 
or interest in land in foreign countries; purchases and repair of 
uniforms for caretakers of national cemeteries and monuments outside of 
the United States and its territories and possessions; rent of office 
and garage space in foreign countries; purchase (one-for-one 
replacement basis only) and hire of passenger motor vehicles; not to 
exceed $7,500 for official reception and representation expenses; and 
insurance of official motor vehicles in foreign countries, when 
required by law of such countries, $57,980,000, to remain available 
until expended.</DELETED>

        <DELETED>foreign currency fluctuations account</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For necessary expenses, not otherwise provided for, of the 
American Battle Monuments Commission, such sums as may be necessary, to 
remain available until expended, for purposes authorized by section 
2109 of title 36, United States Code.</DELETED>

 <DELETED>United States Court of Appeals for Veterans Claims</DELETED>

                <DELETED>salaries and expenses</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For necessary expenses for the operation of the United 
States Court of Appeals for Veterans Claims as authorized by sections 
7251 through 7298 of title 38, United States Code, $35,272,000:  
Provided, That $2,500,000 shall be available for the purpose of 
providing financial assistance as described, and in accordance with the 
process and reporting procedures set forth, under this heading in 
Public Law 102-229.</DELETED>

            <DELETED>Department of Defense--Civil</DELETED>

              <DELETED>Cemeterial Expenses, Army</DELETED>

                <DELETED>salaries and expenses</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For necessary expenses, as authorized by law, for 
maintenance, operation, and improvement of Arlington National Cemetery 
and Soldiers' and Airmen's Home National Cemetery, including the 
purchase or lease of passenger motor vehicles for replacement on a one-
for-one basis only, and not to exceed $1,000 for official reception and 
representation expenses, $70,685,000. In addition, such sums as may be 
necessary for parking maintenance, repairs and replacement, to be 
derived from the ``Lease of Department of Defense Real Property for 
Defense Agencies'' account.</DELETED>

            <DELETED>Armed Forces Retirement Home</DELETED>

                     <DELETED>trust fund</DELETED>

<DELETED>    For expenses necessary for the Armed Forces Retirement 
Home to operate and maintain the Armed Forces Retirement Home--
Washington, District of Columbia, and the Armed Forces Retirement 
Home--Gulfport, Mississippi, to be paid from funds available in the 
Armed Forces Retirement Home Trust Fund, $67,400,000, of which 
$1,000,000 shall remain available until expended for construction and 
renovation of the physical plants at the Armed Forces Retirement Home--
Washington, District of Columbia, and the Armed Forces Retirement 
Home--Gulfport, Mississippi.</DELETED>

              <DELETED>Administrative Provision</DELETED>

<DELETED>    Sec. 301.  Funds appropriated in this Act under the 
heading ``Department of Defense--Civil, Cemeterial Expenses, Army'', 
may be provided to Arlington County, Virginia, for the relocation of 
the federally owned water main at Arlington National Cemetery, making 
additional land available for ground burials.</DELETED>

                      <DELETED>TITLE IV</DELETED>

                 <DELETED>GENERAL PROVISIONS</DELETED>

<DELETED>    Sec. 401.  No part of any appropriation contained in this 
Act shall remain available for obligation beyond the current fiscal 
year unless expressly so provided herein.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 402.  None of the funds made available in this Act 
may be used for any program, project, or activity, when it is made 
known to the Federal entity or official to which the funds are made 
available that the program, project, or activity is not in compliance 
with any Federal law relating to risk assessment, the protection of 
private property rights, or unfunded mandates.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 403.  No part of any funds appropriated in this Act 
shall be used by an agency of the executive branch, other than for 
normal and recognized executive-legislative relationships, for 
publicity or propaganda purposes, and for the preparation, 
distribution, or use of any kit, pamphlet, booklet, publication, radio, 
television, or film presentation designed to support or defeat 
legislation pending before Congress, except in presentation to Congress 
itself.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 404.  All departments and agencies funded under this 
Act are encouraged, within the limits of the existing statutory 
authorities and funding, to expand their use of ``E-Commerce'' 
technologies and procedures in the conduct of their business practices 
and public service activities.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 405.  Unless stated otherwise, all reports and 
notifications required by this Act shall be submitted to the 
Subcommittee on Military Construction and Veterans Affairs, and Related 
Agencies of the Committee on Appropriations of the House of 
Representatives and the Subcommittee on Military Construction and 
Veterans Affairs, and Related Agencies of the Committee on 
Appropriations of the Senate.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 406.  None of the funds made available in this Act 
may be transferred to any department, agency, or instrumentality of the 
United States Government except pursuant to a transfer made by, or 
transfer authority provided in, this or any other appropriations 
Act.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 407.  None of the funds made available in this Act 
may be used for a project or program named for an individual serving as 
a Member, Delegate, or Resident Commissioner of the United States House 
of Representatives.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 408. (a) Any agency receiving funds made available in 
this Act, shall, subject to subsections (b) and (c), post on the public 
website of that agency any report required to be submitted by the 
Congress in this or any other Act, upon the determination by the head 
of the agency that it shall serve the national interest.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    (b) Subsection (a) shall not apply to a report if--
</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    (1) the public posting of the report compromises 
        national security; or</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    (2) the report contains confidential or 
        proprietary information.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    (c) The head of the agency posting such report shall do so 
only after such report has been made available to the requesting 
Committee or Committees of Congress for no less than 45 days.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 409. (a) None of the funds made available in this Act 
may be used to maintain or establish a computer network unless such 
network blocks the viewing, downloading, and exchanging of 
pornography.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    (b) Nothing in subsection (a) shall limit the use of funds 
necessary for any Federal, State, tribal, or local law enforcement 
agency or any other entity carrying out criminal investigations, 
prosecution, or adjudication activities.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 410.  None of the funds made available in this Act 
may be distributed to the Association of Community Organizations for 
Reform Now (ACORN) or its subsidiaries or successors.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 411.  None of the funds made available in this Act 
may be used by an agency of the executive branch to exercise the power 
of eminent domain (to take the private property for public use) without 
the payment of just compensation.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 412.  None of the funds made available in this Act 
may be used by an agency of the executive branch to pay for first-class 
travel by an employee of the agency in contravention of sections 301-
10.122 through 301-10.124 of title 41, Code of Federal 
Regulations.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 413. (a) In General.--None of the funds appropriated 
or otherwise made available to the Department of Defense in this Act 
may be used to construct, renovate, or expand any facility in the 
United States, its territories, or possessions to house any individual 
detained at United States Naval Station, Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, for the 
purposes of detention or imprisonment in the custody or under the 
control of the Department of Defense.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    (b) The prohibition in subsection (a) shall not apply to 
any modification of facilities at United States Naval Station, 
Guantanamo Bay, Cuba.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    (c) An individual described in this subsection is any 
individual who, as of June 24, 2009, is located at United States Naval 
Station, Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, and who--</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    (1) is not a citizen of the United States or a 
        member of the Armed Forces of the United States; and</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    (2) is--</DELETED>
                <DELETED>    (A) in the custody or under the effective 
                control of the Department of Defense; or</DELETED>
                <DELETED>    (B) otherwise under detention at United 
                States Naval Station, Guantanamo Bay, Cuba.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 414.  None of the funds made available in this Act 
may be used to execute a contract for goods or services, including 
construction services, where the contractor has not complied with 
Executive Order No. 12989.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 415.  None of the funds made available by this Act 
may be used to enter into a contract, memorandum of understanding, or 
cooperative agreement with, make a grant to, or provide a loan or loan 
guarantee to, any corporation that was convicted of a felony criminal 
violation under any Federal law within the preceding 24 months, where 
the awarding agency is aware of the conviction, unless the agency has 
considered suspension or debarment of the corporation and has made a 
determination that this further action is not necessary to protect the 
interests of the Government.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 416.  None of the funds made available by this Act 
may be used to enter into a contract, memorandum of understanding, or 
cooperative agreement with, make a grant to, or provide a loan or loan 
guarantee to, any corporation that has any unpaid Federal tax liability 
that has been assessed, for which all judicial and administrative 
remedies have been exhausted or have lapsed, and that is not being paid 
in a timely manner pursuant to an agreement with the authority 
responsible for collecting the tax liability, where the awarding agency 
is aware of the unpaid tax liability, unless the agency has considered 
suspension or debarment of the corporation and has made a determination 
that this further action is not necessary to protect the interests of 
the Government.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 417.  None of the funds made available in this Act 
may be used to wind down or otherwise alter the implementation of a 
program, project, or activity in anticipation of any change (including 
any elimination or reduction of funding) proposed in a budget request, 
until such proposed change is subsequently enacted in an appropriation 
Act.</DELETED>

             <DELETED>spending reduction account</DELETED>

<DELETED>    Sec. 418.  The amount by which the applicable allocation 
of new budget authority made by the Committee on Appropriations of the 
House of Representatives under section 302(b) of the Congressional 
Budget Act of 1974 exceeds the amount of proposed new budget authority 
is $0.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 419. (a) None of the funds made available in this Act 
may be used to pay more than 75 percent of the salary of any senior 
Department of Veterans Affairs official during the period beginning on 
July 1, 2014, and ending on September 30, 2014, unless as of July 1, 
2014, the percentage of disability compensation claims that are more 
than 125 days old is less than or equal to 40 percent.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    (b) In this section, the term ``senior Department of 
Veterans Affairs official'' means the Secretary of Veterans Affairs, 
the Deputy Secretary of Veterans Affairs, and any Under Secretary or 
Assistant Secretary of Veterans Affairs.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 420.  None of the funds made available by this Act 
may be used for any conference (as described in the Office of 
Management and Budget Memorandum M-12-12, ``Promoting Efficient 
Spending to Support Agency Operations'', dated May 11, 2012) for which 
the cost to the agency exceeds $500,000.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 421.  None of the funds made available by this Act 
may be used by the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to pay a performance 
award under section 5384 of title 5, United States Code.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 422.  None of the funds made available by this Act 
may be used to enter into a contract with any offeror or any of its 
principals if the offeror certifies, as required by Federal Acquisition 
Regulation, that the offeror or any of its principals--</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    (1) within a 3-year period preceding this offer 
        has been convicted of or had a civil judgment rendered against 
        it for: (A) commission of fraud or a criminal offense in 
        connection with obtaining, attempting to obtain, or performing 
        a public (Federal, State, or local) contract or subcontract; 
        violation of Federal or State antitrust statutes relating to 
        the submission of offers; or (B) commission of embezzlement, 
        theft, forgery, bribery, falsification or destruction of 
        records, making false statements, tax evasion, violating 
        Federal criminal tax laws, or receiving stolen 
        property;</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    (2) are presently indicted for, or otherwise 
        criminally or civilly charged by a governmental entity with, 
        commission of any of the offenses enumerated above in paragraph 
        (1); or</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    (3) within a 3-year period preceding this offer, 
        has been notified of any delinquent Federal taxes in an amount 
        that exceeds $3,000 for which the liability remains 
        unsatisfied.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 423.  None of the funds made available by this Act 
may be used to propose, plan for, or execute a new or additional Base 
Realignment and Closure (BRAC) round.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 424.  None of the funds made available by this Act 
may be used to award any contract in an amount greater than $1,000,000 
for which the Department of Defense did not receive at least two 
offers.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 425.  None of the funds made available by this Act, 
including the funds made available for ``Construction, Major 
Projects'', may be used to increase the funding for any major medical 
facility project (as defined in subsection (a)(3)(A) of section 8104 of 
title 38, United States Code), which is under construction as of the 
date of the enactment of this Act, above the amount specified in the 
prospectus described in subsection (b) of such section 8104 and the 
detailed estimate of cost described in paragraph (1) of such 
subsection.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 426.  None of the funds made available by this Act 
may be used by the Department of Defense or the Department of Veterans 
Affairs to lease or purchase new light duty vehicles for any executive 
fleet, or for an agency's fleet inventory, except in accordance with 
Presidential Memorandum--Federal Fleet Performance, dated May 24, 
2011.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 427.  The amounts otherwise provided by this Act are 
revised by reducing the amount made available for ``Department of 
Veterans Affairs--Departmental Administration--General 
Administration'', and increasing the amount made available for 
``Department of Veterans Affairs--Departmental Administration--
Information Technology Systems'', by $10,000,000.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    Sec. 428.  None of the funds made available by this Act 
may be used to maintain or improve Department of Defense real property 
with a zero percent utilization rate according to the Department's real 
property inventory database, except in the case of maintenance of an 
historic property as required by the National Historic Preservation Act 
(16 U.S.C. 470 et seq.) or maintenance to prevent a negative 
environmental impact as required by the National Environmental Policy 
Act of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 4321 et seq.).</DELETED>
That the following sums are appropriated, out of any money in the 
Treasury not otherwise appropriated, for military construction, the 
Department of Veterans Affairs, and related agencies for the fiscal 
year ending September 30, 2014, and for other purposes, namely:

                                TITLE I

                         DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE

                      Military Construction, Army

    For acquisition, construction, installation, and equipment of 
temporary or permanent public works, military installations, 
facilities, and real property for the Army as currently authorized by 
law, including personnel in the Army Corps of Engineers and other 
personal services necessary for the purposes of this appropriation, and 
for construction and operation of facilities in support of the 
functions of the Commander in Chief, $1,119,875,000, to remain 
available until September 30, 2018:  Provided, That of this amount, not 
to exceed $41,575,000 shall be available for study, planning, design, 
architect and engineer services, and host nation support, as authorized 
by law, unless the Secretary of Army determines that additional 
obligations are necessary for such purposes and notifies the Committees 
on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress of the determination and 
the reasons therefor.

              Military Construction, Navy and Marine Corps

    For acquisition, construction, installation, and equipment of 
temporary or permanent public works, naval installations, facilities, 
and real property for the Navy and Marine Corps as currently authorized 
by law, including personnel in the Naval Facilities Engineering Command 
and other personal services necessary for the purposes of this 
appropriation, $1,614,596,000, to remain available until September 30, 
2018:  Provided, That of this amount, not to exceed $89,830,000 shall 
be available for study, planning, design, and architect and engineer 
services, as authorized by law, unless the Secretary of Navy determines 
that additional obligations are necessary for such purposes and 
notifies the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress of 
the determination and the reasons therefor.

                    Military Construction, Air Force

    For acquisition, construction, installation, and equipment of 
temporary or permanent public works, military installations, 
facilities, and real property for the Air Force as currently authorized 
by law, $1,153,960,000, to remain available until September 30, 2018:  
Provided, That of this amount, not to exceed $14,321,000 shall be 
available for study, planning, design, and architect and engineer 
services, as authorized by law, unless the Secretary of Air Force 
determines that additional obligations are necessary for such purposes 
and notifies the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of 
Congress of the determination and the reasons therefor:  Provided 
further, That none of the funds provided under this heading for 
military construction in the United Kingdom as identified in the table 
entitled ``Military Construction Project Listing by Location'' in the 
report accompanying this Act may be obligated or expended until the 
Department of Defense completes a European Consolidation Study, and the 
Secretary of Defense (1) provides to the Committees on Appropriations 
of the Senate and the House of Representatives a comprehensive European 
basing strategy reflecting the findings of the Consolidation Study, and 
(2) certifies in writing the requirement identified in the study for 
each of the military construction projects in the United Kingdom funded 
in this section:  Provided further, That none of the funds provided 
under this heading for military construction in Saipan or for Pacific 
Airpower Resiliency projects in Guam, Joint Region Marianas, as 
identified in the table entitled ``Military Construction Project 
Listing by Location'' in the report accompanying this Act, may be 
obligated or expended until the Department of Defense completes a 
Pacific Resiliency Study and the Secretary of Defense (1) provides to 
the Committees on Appropriations of the Senate and the House of 
Representatives a comprehensive Pacific Resiliency Plan, and (2) 
certifies in writing the requirement identified in the study for each 
of the military construction projects in Saipan, and for the Pacific 
Airpower Resiliency projects in Guam funded in this section.

                  Military Construction, Defense-Wide

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For acquisition, construction, installation, and equipment of 
temporary or permanent public works, installations, facilities, and 
real property for activities and agencies of the Department of Defense 
(other than the military departments), as currently authorized by law, 
$3,766,553,000, to remain available until September 30, 2018:  
Provided, That such amounts of this appropriation as may be determined 
by the Secretary of Defense may be transferred to such appropriations 
of the Department of Defense available for military construction or 
family housing as the Secretary may designate, to be merged with and to 
be available for the same purposes, and for the same time period, as 
the appropriation or fund to which transferred:  Provided further, That 
of the amount appropriated, not to exceed $237,838,000 shall be 
available for study, planning, design, and architect and engineer 
services, as authorized by law, unless the Secretary of Defense 
determines that additional obligations are necessary for such purposes 
and notifies the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of 
Congress of the determination and the reasons therefor:  Provided 
further, That none of the funds provided under this heading for 
military construction in Germany or the United Kingdom as identified in 
the table entitled ``Military Construction Project Listing by 
Location'' in the report accompanying this Act may be obligated or 
expended until the Department of Defense completes a European 
Consolidation Study, and the Secretary of Defense (1) provides to the 
Committees on Appropriations of the Senate and the House of 
Representatives a comprehensive European basing strategy reflecting the 
findings of the Consolidation Study, and (2) certifies in writing the 
requirement identified in the study for each of the military 
construction projects in Germany and the United Kingdom funded in this 
section:  Provided further, That of the amount appropriated, 
notwithstanding any other provision of law, $38,513,000 shall be 
available for payments to the North Atlantic Treaty Organization for 
the planning, design, and construction of a new North Atlantic Treaty 
Organization headquarters.

               Military Construction, Army National Guard

    For construction, acquisition, expansion, rehabilitation, and 
conversion of facilities for the training and administration of the 
Army National Guard, and contributions therefor, as authorized by 
chapter 1803 of title 10, United States Code, and Military Construction 
Authorization Acts, $320,815,000, to remain available until September 
30, 2018:  Provided, That of the amount appropriated, not to exceed 
$29,005,000 shall be available for study, planning, design, and 
architect and engineer services, as authorized by law, unless the 
Director of the Army National Guard determines that additional 
obligations are necessary for such purposes and notifies the Committees 
on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress of the determination and 
the reasons therefor.

               Military Construction, Air National Guard

    For construction, acquisition, expansion, rehabilitation, and 
conversion of facilities for the training and administration of the Air 
National Guard, and contributions therefor, as authorized by chapter 
1803 of title 10, United States Code, and Military Construction 
Authorization Acts, $119,800,000, to remain available until September 
30, 2018:  Provided, That of the amount appropriated, not to exceed 
$13,400,000 shall be available for study, planning, design, and 
architect and engineer services, as authorized by law, unless the 
Director of the Air National Guard determines that additional 
obligations are necessary for such purposes and notifies the Committees 
on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress of the determination and 
the reasons therefor.

                  Military Construction, Army Reserve

    For construction, acquisition, expansion, rehabilitation, and 
conversion of facilities for the training and administration of the 
Army Reserve as authorized by chapter 1803 of title 10, United States 
Code, and Military Construction Authorization Acts, $174,060,000, to 
remain available until September 30, 2018:  Provided, That of the 
amount appropriated, not to exceed $14,212,000 shall be available for 
study, planning, design, and architect and engineer services, as 
authorized by law, unless the Chief of the Army Reserve determines that 
additional obligations are necessary for such purposes and notifies the 
Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress of the 
determination and the reasons therefor.

                  Military Construction, Navy Reserve

    For construction, acquisition, expansion, rehabilitation, and 
conversion of facilities for the training and administration of the 
reserve components of the Navy and Marine Corps as authorized by 
chapter 1803 of title 10, United States Code, and Military Construction 
Authorization Acts, $32,976,000, to remain available until September 
30, 2018:  Provided, That of the amount appropriated, not to exceed 
$2,540,000 shall be available for study, planning, design, and 
architect and engineer services, as authorized by law, unless the 
Secretary of the Navy determines that additional obligations are 
necessary for such purposes and notifies the Committees on 
Appropriations of both Houses of Congress of the determination and the 
reasons therefor.

                Military Construction, Air Force Reserve

    For construction, acquisition, expansion, rehabilitation, and 
conversion of facilities for the training and administration of the Air 
Force Reserve as authorized by chapter 1803 of title 10, United States 
Code, and Military Construction Authorization Acts, $45,659,000, to 
remain available until September 30, 2018:  Provided, That of the 
amount appropriated, not to exceed $2,229,000 shall be available for 
study, planning, design, and architect and engineer services, as 
authorized by law, unless the Chief of the Air Force Reserve determines 
that additional obligations are necessary for such purposes and 
notifies the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress of 
the determination and the reasons therefor.

                   North Atlantic Treaty Organization

                      Security Investment Program

    For the United States share of the cost of the North Atlantic 
Treaty Organization Security Investment Program for the acquisition and 
construction of military facilities and installations (including 
international military headquarters) and for related expenses for the 
collective defense of the North Atlantic Treaty Area as authorized by 
section 2806 of title 10, United States Code, and Military Construction 
Authorization Acts, $239,700,000, to remain available until expended.

                   Family Housing Construction, Army

    For expenses of family housing for the Army for construction, 
including acquisition, replacement, addition, expansion, extension, and 
alteration, as authorized by law, $27,408,000, to remain available 
until September 30, 2018.

             Family Housing Operation and Maintenance, Army

    For expenses of family housing for the Army for operation and 
maintenance, including debt payment, leasing, minor construction, 
principal and interest charges, and insurance premiums, as authorized 
by law, $512,871,000.

           Family Housing Construction, Navy and Marine Corps

    For expenses of family housing for the Navy and Marine Corps for 
construction, including acquisition, replacement, addition, expansion, 
extension, and alteration, as authorized by law, $73,407,000, to remain 
available until September 30, 2018.

    Family Housing Operation and Maintenance, Navy and Marine Corps

    For expenses of family housing for the Navy and Marine Corps for 
operation and maintenance, including debt payment, leasing, minor 
construction, principal and interest charges, and insurance premiums, 
as authorized by law, $389,844,000.

                 Family Housing Construction, Air Force

    For expenses of family housing for the Air Force for construction, 
including acquisition, replacement, addition, expansion, extension, and 
alteration, as authorized by law, $76,360,000, to remain available 
until September 30, 2018.

          Family Housing Operation and Maintenance, Air Force

    For expenses of family housing for the Air Force for operation and 
maintenance, including debt payment, leasing, minor construction, 
principal and interest charges, and insurance premiums, as authorized 
by law, $388,598,000.

         Family Housing Operation and Maintenance, Defense-Wide

    For expenses of family housing for the activities and agencies of 
the Department of Defense (other than the military departments) for 
operation and maintenance, leasing, and minor construction, as 
authorized by law, $55,845,000.

         Department of Defense Family Housing Improvement Fund

    For the Department of Defense Family Housing Improvement Fund, 
$1,780,000, to remain available until expended, for family housing 
initiatives undertaken pursuant to section 2883 of title 10, United 
States Code, providing alternative means of acquiring and improving 
military family housing and supporting facilities.

          Chemical Demilitarization Construction, Defense-Wide

    For expenses of construction, not otherwise provided for, necessary 
for the destruction of the United States stockpile of lethal chemical 
agents and munitions in accordance with section 1412 of the Department 
of Defense Authorization Act, 1986 (50 U.S.C. 1521), and for the 
destruction of other chemical warfare materials that are not in the 
chemical weapon stockpile, as currently authorized by law, 
$122,536,000, to remain available until September 30, 2018, which shall 
be only for the Assembled Chemical Weapons Alternatives program.

               Department of Defense Base Closure Account

    For deposit into the Department of Defense Base Closure Account 
1990, established by section 2906(a)(1) of the Defense Base Closure and 
Realignment Act of 1990 (10 U.S.C. 2687 note), as amended by section 
2711 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2013 
(Public Law 112-239), $451,357,000, to remain available until expended.

                       Administrative Provisions

    Sec. 101.  None of the funds made available in this title shall be 
expended for payments under a cost-plus-a-fixed-fee contract for 
construction, where cost estimates exceed $25,000, to be performed 
within the United States, except Alaska, without the specific approval 
in writing of the Secretary of Defense setting forth the reasons 
therefor.
    Sec. 102.  Funds made available in this title for construction 
shall be available for hire of passenger motor vehicles.
    Sec. 103.  Funds made available in this title for construction may 
be used for advances to the Federal Highway Administration, Department 
of Transportation, for the construction of access roads as authorized 
by section 210 of title 23, United States Code, when projects 
authorized therein are certified as important to the national defense 
by the Secretary of Defense.
    Sec. 104.  None of the funds made available in this title may be 
used to begin construction of new bases in the United States for which 
specific appropriations have not been made.
    Sec. 105.  None of the funds made available in this title shall be 
used for purchase of land or land easements in excess of 100 percent of 
the value as determined by the Army Corps of Engineers or the Naval 
Facilities Engineering Command, except: (1) where there is a 
determination of value by a Federal court; (2) purchases negotiated by 
the Attorney General or the designee of the Attorney General; (3) where 
the estimated value is less than $25,000; or (4) as otherwise 
determined by the Secretary of Defense to be in the public interest.
    Sec. 106.  None of the funds made available in this title shall be 
used to: (1) acquire land; (2) provide for site preparation; or (3) 
install utilities for any family housing, except housing for which 
funds have been made available in annual Acts making appropriations for 
military construction.
    Sec. 107.  None of the funds made available in this title for minor 
construction may be used to transfer or relocate any activity from one 
base or installation to another, without prior notification to the 
Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress.
    Sec. 108.  None of the funds made available in this title may be 
used for the procurement of steel for any construction project or 
activity for which American steel producers, fabricators, and 
manufacturers have been denied the opportunity to compete for such 
steel procurement.
    Sec. 109.  None of the funds available to the Department of Defense 
for military construction or family housing during the current fiscal 
year may be used to pay real property taxes in any foreign nation.
    Sec. 110.  None of the funds made available in this title may be 
used to initiate a new installation overseas without prior notification 
to the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress.
    Sec. 111.  None of the funds made available in this title may be 
obligated for architect and engineer contracts estimated by the 
Government to exceed $500,000 for projects to be accomplished in Japan, 
in any North Atlantic Treaty Organization member country, or in 
countries bordering the Arabian Sea, unless such contracts are awarded 
to United States firms or United States firms in joint venture with 
host nation firms.
    Sec. 112.  None of the funds made available in this title for 
military construction in the United States territories and possessions 
in the Pacific and on Kwajalein Atoll, or in countries bordering the 
Arabian Sea, may be used to award any contract estimated by the 
Government to exceed $1,000,000 to a foreign contractor:  Provided, 
That this section shall not be applicable to contract awards for which 
the lowest responsive and responsible bid of a United States contractor 
exceeds the lowest responsive and responsible bid of a foreign 
contractor by greater than 20 percent:  Provided further, That this 
section shall not apply to contract awards for military construction on 
Kwajalein Atoll for which the lowest responsive and responsible bid is 
submitted by a Marshallese contractor.
    Sec. 113.  The Secretary of Defense shall inform the appropriate 
committees of both Houses of Congress, including the Committees on 
Appropriations, of plans and scope of any proposed military exercise 
involving United States personnel 30 days prior to its occurring, if 
amounts expended for construction, either temporary or permanent, are 
anticipated to exceed $100,000.
    Sec. 114.  Not more than 20 percent of the funds made available in 
this title which are limited for obligation during the current fiscal 
year shall be obligated during the last 2 months of the fiscal year.
    Sec. 115.  Funds appropriated to the Department of Defense for 
construction in prior years shall be available for construction 
authorized for each such military department by the authorizations 
enacted into law during the current session of Congress.
    Sec. 116.  For military construction or family housing projects 
that are being completed with funds otherwise expired or lapsed for 
obligation, expired or lapsed funds may be used to pay the cost of 
associated supervision, inspection, overhead, engineering and design on 
those projects and on subsequent claims, if any.
    Sec. 117.  Notwithstanding any other provision of law, any funds 
made available to a military department or defense agency for the 
construction of military projects may be obligated for a military 
construction project or contract, or for any portion of such a project 
or contract, at any time before the end of the fourth fiscal year after 
the fiscal year for which funds for such project were made available, 
if the funds obligated for such project: (1) are obligated from funds 
available for military construction projects; and (2) do not exceed the 
amount appropriated for such project, plus any amount by which the cost 
of such project is increased pursuant to law.

                     (including transfer of funds)

    Sec. 118.  In addition to any other transfer authority available to 
the Department of Defense, proceeds deposited to the Department of 
Defense Base Closure Account established by section 207(a)(1) of the 
Defense Authorization Amendments and Base Closure and Realignment Act 
(10 U.S.C. 2687 note) pursuant to section 207(a)(2)(C) of such Act, may 
be transferred to the account established by section 2906(a)(1) of the 
Defense Base Closure and Realignment Act of 1990 (10 U.S.C. 2687 note), 
to be merged with, and to be available for the same purposes and the 
same time period as that account.

                          (transfer of funds)

    Sec. 119.  Subject to 30 days prior notification, or 14 days for a 
notification provided in an electronic medium pursuant to sections 480 
and 2883 of title 10, United States Code, to the Committees on 
Appropriations of both Houses of Congress, such additional amounts as 
may be determined by the Secretary of Defense may be transferred to: 
(1) the Department of Defense Family Housing Improvement Fund from 
amounts appropriated for construction in ``Family Housing'' accounts, 
to be merged with and to be available for the same purposes and for the 
same period of time as amounts appropriated directly to the Fund; or 
(2) the Department of Defense Military Unaccompanied Housing 
Improvement Fund from amounts appropriated for construction of military 
unaccompanied housing in ``Military Construction'' accounts, to be 
merged with and to be available for the same purposes and for the same 
period of time as amounts appropriated directly to the Fund:  Provided, 
That appropriations made available to the Funds shall be available to 
cover the costs, as defined in section 502(5) of the Congressional 
Budget Act of 1974, of direct loans or loan guarantees issued by the 
Department of Defense pursuant to the provisions of subchapter IV of 
chapter 169 of title 10, United States Code, pertaining to alternative 
means of acquiring and improving military family housing, military 
unaccompanied housing, and supporting facilities.

                          (transfer of funds)

    Sec. 120.  In addition to any other transfer authority available to 
the Department of Defense, amounts may be transferred from the accounts 
established by sections 2906(a)(1) and 2906A(a)(1) of the Defense Base 
Closure and Realignment Act of 1990 (10 U.S.C. 2687 note), to the fund 
established by section 1013(d) of the Demonstration Cities and 
Metropolitan Development Act of 1966 (42 U.S.C. 3374) to pay for 
expenses associated with the Homeowners Assistance Program incurred 
under 42 U.S.C. 3374(a)(1)(A). Any amounts transferred shall be merged 
with and be available for the same purposes and for the same time 
period as the fund to which transferred.
    Sec. 121.  Notwithstanding any other provision of law, funds made 
available in this title for operation and maintenance of family housing 
shall be the exclusive source of funds for repair and maintenance of 
all family housing units, including general or flag officer quarters:  
Provided, That not more than $35,000 per unit may be spent annually for 
the maintenance and repair of any general or flag officer quarters 
without 30 days prior notification, or 14 days for a notification 
provided in an electronic medium pursuant to sections 480 and 2883 of 
title 10, United States Code, to the Committees on Appropriations of 
both Houses of Congress, except that an after-the-fact notification 
shall be submitted if the limitation is exceeded solely due to costs 
associated with environmental remediation that could not be reasonably 
anticipated at the time of the budget submission:  Provided further,  
That the Under Secretary of Defense (Comptroller) is to report annually 
to the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress all 
operation and maintenance expenditures for each individual general or 
flag officer quarters for the prior fiscal year.
    Sec. 122.  Amounts contained in the Ford Island Improvement Account 
established by subsection (h) of section 2814 of title 10, United 
States Code, are appropriated and shall be available until expended for 
the purposes specified in subsection (i)(1) of such section or until 
transferred pursuant to subsection (i)(3) of such section.
    Sec. 123.  None of the funds made available in this title, or in 
any Act making appropriations for military construction which remain 
available for obligation, may be obligated or expended to carry out a 
military construction, land acquisition, or family housing project at 
or for a military installation approved for closure, or at a military 
installation for the purposes of supporting a function that has been 
approved for realignment to another installation, in 2005 under the 
Defense Base Closure and Realignment Act of 1990 (part A of title XXIX 
of Public Law 101-510; 10 U.S.C. 2687 note), unless such a project at a 
military installation approved for realignment will support a 
continuing mission or function at that installation or a new mission or 
function that is planned for that installation, or unless the Secretary 
of Defense certifies that the cost to the United States of carrying out 
such project would be less than the cost to the United States of 
cancelling such project, or if the project is at an active component 
base that shall be established as an enclave or in the case of projects 
having multi-agency use, that another Government agency has indicated 
it will assume ownership of the completed project. The Secretary of 
Defense may not transfer funds made available as a result of this 
limitation from any military construction project, land acquisition, or 
family housing project to another account or use such funds for another 
purpose or project without the prior approval of the Committees on 
Appropriations of both Houses of Congress. This section shall not apply 
to military construction projects, land acquisition, or family housing 
projects for which the project is vital to the national security or the 
protection of health, safety, or environmental quality:  Provided, That 
the Secretary of Defense shall notify the congressional defense 
committees within 7 days of a decision to carry out such a military 
construction project.

                     (including transfer of funds)

    Sec. 124.  During the 5-year period after appropriations available 
in this Act to the Department of Defense for military construction and 
family housing operation and maintenance and construction have expired 
for obligation, upon a determination that such appropriations will not 
be necessary for the liquidation of obligations or for making 
authorized adjustments to such appropriations for obligations incurred 
during the period of availability of such appropriations, unobligated 
balances of such appropriations may be transferred into the 
appropriation ``Foreign Currency Fluctuations, Construction, Defense'', 
to be merged with and to be available for the same time period and for 
the same purposes as the appropriation to which transferred.
    Sec. 125.  Amounts appropriated or otherwise made available in an 
account funded under the headings in this title may be transferred 
among projects and activities within the account in accordance with the 
reprogramming guidelines for military construction and family housing 
construction contained in Department of Defense Financial Management 
Regulation 7000.14-R, Volume 3, Chapter 7, of February 2009, as in 
effect on the date of enactment of this Act.
    Sec. 126.  None of the funds made available in this title may be 
obligated or expended for planning and design and construction of 
projects at Arlington National Cemetery.
    Sec. 127.  None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
available by this Act may be used for decommissioning the Combined Heat 
and Power Plant at Clear Air Force Station, Alaska, until the 
Comptroller General of the United States conducts a review of the data 
used by the Department of Defense, including data in the Environmental 
Impact Statement and Fiscal Year 2010 Feasibility Study, to determine 
whether decommissioning the Combined Heat and Power Plant is the most 
cost-effective and beneficial option for the day-to-day operations and 
missions at the installation in support of United States national 
security.

                                TITLE II

                     DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS AFFAIRS

                    Veterans Benefits Administration

                       compensation and pensions

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For the payment of compensation benefits to or on behalf of 
veterans and a pilot program for disability examinations as authorized 
by section 107 and chapters 11, 13, 18, 51, 53, 55, and 61 of title 38, 
United States Code; pension benefits to or on behalf of veterans as 
authorized by chapters 15, 51, 53, 55, and 61 of title 38, United 
States Code; and burial benefits, the Reinstated Entitlement Program 
for Survivors, emergency and other officers' retirement pay, adjusted-
service credits and certificates, payment of premiums due on commercial 
life insurance policies guaranteed under the provisions of title IV of 
the Servicemembers Civil Relief Act (50 U.S.C. App. 541 et seq.) and 
for other benefits as authorized by sections 107, 1312, 1977, and 2106, 
and chapters 23, 51, 53, 55, and 61 of title 38, United States Code, 
$71,248,171,000, to remain available until expended:  Provided, That 
not to exceed $9,232,000 of the amount appropriated under this heading 
shall be reimbursed to ``General operating expenses, Veterans Benefits 
Administration'', ``Medical support and compliance'', and ``Information 
technology systems'' for necessary expenses in implementing the 
provisions of chapters 51, 53, and 55 of title 38, United States Code, 
the funding source for which is specifically provided as the 
``Compensation and pensions'' appropriation:  Provided further, That 
such sums as may be earned on an actual qualifying patient basis, shall 
be reimbursed to ``Medical care collections fund'' to augment the 
funding of individual medical facilities for nursing home care provided 
to pensioners as authorized.

                         readjustment benefits

    For the payment of readjustment and rehabilitation benefits to or 
on behalf of veterans as authorized by chapters 21, 30, 31, 33, 34, 35, 
36, 39, 41, 51, 53, 55, and 61 of title 38, United States Code, and for 
the payment of benefits under the Veterans Retraining Assistance 
Program, $13,135,898,000, to remain available until expended:  
Provided, That expenses for rehabilitation program services and 
assistance which the Secretary is authorized to provide under 
subsection (a) of section 3104 of title 38, United States Code, other 
than under paragraphs (1), (2), (5), and (11) of that subsection, shall 
be charged to this account.

                   veterans insurance and indemnities

    For military and naval insurance, national service life insurance, 
servicemen's indemnities, service-disabled veterans insurance, and 
veterans mortgage life insurance as authorized by chapters 19 and 21, 
title 38, United States Code, $77,567,000, to remain available until 
expended.

                 veterans housing benefit program fund

    For the cost of direct and guaranteed loans, such sums as may be 
necessary to carry out the program, as authorized by subchapters I 
through III of chapter 37 of title 38, United States Code:  Provided, 
That such costs, including the cost of modifying such loans, shall be 
as defined in section 502 of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974:  
Provided further, That during fiscal year 2014, within the resources 
available, not to exceed $500,000 in gross obligations for direct loans 
are authorized for specially adapted housing loans.
    In addition, for administrative expenses to carry out the direct 
and guaranteed loan programs, $158,430,000.

            vocational rehabilitation loans program account

    For the cost of direct loans, $5,000, as authorized by chapter 31 
of title 38, United States Code:  Provided, That such costs, including 
the cost of modifying such loans, shall be as defined in section 502 of 
the Congressional Budget Act of 1974:  Provided further, That funds 
made available under this heading are available to subsidize gross 
obligations for the principal amount of direct loans not to exceed 
$2,500,000.
    In addition, for administrative expenses necessary to carry out the 
direct loan program, $354,000, which may be paid to the appropriation 
for ``General operating expenses, Veterans Benefits Administration''.

          native american veteran housing loan program account

    For administrative expenses to carry out the direct loan program 
authorized by subchapter V of chapter 37 of title 38, United States 
Code, $1,109,000.

                     Veterans Health Administration

                            medical services

    For necessary expenses for furnishing, as authorized by law, 
inpatient and outpatient care and treatment to beneficiaries of the 
Department of Veterans Affairs and veterans described in section 
1705(a) of title 38, United States Code, including care and treatment 
in facilities not under the jurisdiction of the Department, and 
including medical supplies and equipment, bioengineering services, food 
services, and salaries and expenses of healthcare employees hired under 
title 38, United States Code, aid to State homes as authorized by 
section 1741 of title 38, United States Code, assistance and support 
services for caregivers as authorized by section 1720G of title 38, 
United States Code, loan repayments authorized by section 604 of the 
Caregivers and Veterans Omnibus Health Services Act of 2010 (Public Law 
111-163; 124 Stat. 1174; 38 U.S.C. 7681 note), and hospital care and 
medical services authorized by section 1787 of title 38, United States 
Code; $25,000,000, which shall be in addition to funds previously 
appropriated under this heading that become available on October 1, 
2013; and, in addition, $45,015,527,000, plus reimbursements, shall 
become available on October 1, 2014, and shall remain available until 
September 30, 2015:  Provided, That notwithstanding any other provision 
of law, the Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall establish a priority 
for the provision of medical treatment for veterans who have service-
connected disabilities, lower income, or have special needs:  Provided 
further, That notwithstanding any other provision of law, the Secretary 
of Veterans Affairs shall give priority funding for the provision of 
basic medical benefits to veterans in enrollment priority groups 1 
through 6:  Provided further, That notwithstanding any other provision 
of law, the Secretary of Veterans Affairs may authorize the dispensing 
of prescription drugs from Veterans Health Administration facilities to 
enrolled veterans with privately written prescriptions based on 
requirements established by the Secretary:  Provided further, That the 
implementation of the program described in the previous proviso shall 
incur no additional cost to the Department of Veterans Affairs.

                     medical support and compliance

    For necessary expenses in the administration of the medical, 
hospital, nursing home, domiciliary, construction, supply, and research 
activities, as authorized by law; administrative expenses in support of 
capital policy activities; and administrative and legal expenses of the 
Department for collecting and recovering amounts owed the Department as 
authorized under chapter 17 of title 38, United States Code, and the 
Federal Medical Care Recovery Act (42 U.S.C. 2651 et seq.); 
$5,879,700,000, plus reimbursements, shall become available on October 
1, 2014, and shall remain available until September 30, 2015.

                           medical facilities

    For necessary expenses for the maintenance and operation of 
hospitals, nursing homes, domiciliary facilities, and other necessary 
facilities of the Veterans Health Administration; for administrative 
expenses in support of planning, design, project management, real 
property acquisition and disposition, construction, and renovation of 
any facility under the jurisdiction or for the use of the Department; 
for oversight, engineering, and architectural activities not charged to 
project costs; for repairing, altering, improving, or providing 
facilities in the several hospitals and homes under the jurisdiction of 
the Department, not otherwise provided for, either by contract or by 
the hire of temporary employees and purchase of materials; for leases 
of facilities; and for laundry services; $100,000,000 which shall be in 
addition to funds previously appropriated under this heading that 
become available on October 1, 2013; and, in addition, $4,739,000,000, 
plus reimbursements, shall become available on October 1, 2014, and 
shall remain available until September 30, 2015.

                    medical and prosthetic research

    For necessary expenses in carrying out programs of medical and 
prosthetic research and development as authorized by chapter 73 of 
title 38, United States Code, $585,664,000, plus reimbursements, shall 
remain available until September 30, 2015.

                    National Cemetery Administration

    For necessary expenses of the National Cemetery Administration for 
operations and maintenance, not otherwise provided for, including 
uniforms or allowances therefor; cemeterial expenses as authorized by 
law; purchase of one passenger motor vehicle for use in cemeterial 
operations; hire of passenger motor vehicles; and repair, alteration or 
improvement of facilities under the jurisdiction of the National 
Cemetery Administration, $250,000,000, of which not to exceed 
$25,000,000 shall remain available until September 30, 2015.

                      Departmental Administration

                         general administration

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For necessary operating expenses of the Department of Veterans 
Affairs, not otherwise provided for, including administrative expenses 
in support of Department-Wide capital planning, management and policy 
activities, uniforms, or allowances therefor; not to exceed $25,000 for 
official reception and representation expenses; hire of passenger motor 
vehicles; and reimbursement of the General Services Administration for 
security guard services, $415,885,000, of which not to exceed 
$20,151,150 shall remain available until September 30, 2015:  Provided, 
That the Board of Veterans Appeals shall be funded at not less than 
$88,294,000:  Provided further, That funds provided under this heading 
may be transferred to ``General operating expenses, Veterans Benefits 
Administration''.

      general operating expenses, veterans benefits administration

    For necessary operating expenses of the Veterans Benefits 
Administration, not otherwise provided for, including hire of passenger 
motor vehicles, reimbursement of the General Services Administration 
for security guard services, and reimbursement of the Department of 
Defense for the cost of overseas employee mail, $2,465,490,000:  
Provided, That expenses for services and assistance authorized under 
paragraphs (1), (2), (5), and (11) of section 3104(a) of title 38, 
United States Code, that the Secretary of Veterans Affairs determines 
are necessary to enable entitled veterans: (1) to the maximum extent 
feasible, to become employable and to obtain and maintain suitable 
employment; or (2) to achieve maximum independence in daily living, 
shall be charged to this account:  Provided further, That of the funds 
made available under this heading, not to exceed $123,000,000 shall 
remain available until September 30, 2015:  Provided further, That from 
the funds made available under this heading, the Veterans Benefits 
Administration may purchase (on a one-for-one replacement basis only) 
up to two passenger motor vehicles for use in operations of that 
Administration in Manila, Philippines.

                     information technology systems

    For necessary expenses for information technology systems and 
telecommunications support, including developmental information systems 
and operational information systems; for pay and associated costs; and 
for the capital asset acquisition of information technology systems, 
including management and related contractual costs of said 
acquisitions, including contractual costs associated with operations 
authorized by section 3109 of title 5, United States Code, 
$3,703,344,000, plus reimbursements:  Provided, That $1,011,400,000 
shall be for pay and associated costs, of which not to exceed 
$30,792,000 shall remain available until September 30, 2015:  Provided 
further, That $2,196,653,000 shall be for operations and maintenance, 
of which not to exceed $152,716,000 shall remain available until 
September 30, 2015:  Provided further, That $495,291,000 shall be for 
information technology systems development, modernization, and 
enhancement, and shall remain available until September 30, 2015:  
Provided further, That amounts made available for information 
technology systems development, modernization, and enhancement may not 
be obligated or expended until the Secretary of Veterans Affairs or the 
Chief Information Officer of the Department of Veterans Affairs submits 
to the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress a 
certification of the amounts, in parts or in full, to be obligated and 
expended for each development project:  Provided further, That amounts 
made available for salaries and expenses, operations and maintenance, 
and information technology systems development, modernization, and 
enhancement may be transferred among the three subaccounts after the 
Secretary of Veterans Affairs requests from the Committees on 
Appropriations of both Houses of Congress the authority to make the 
transfer and an approval is issued:  Provided further, That amounts 
made available for the ``Information technology systems'' account for 
development, modernization, and enhancement may be transferred among 
projects or to newly defined projects:  Provided further, That no 
project may be increased or decreased by more than $1,000,000 of cost 
prior to submitting a request to the Committees on Appropriations of 
both Houses of Congress to make the transfer and an approval is issued, 
or absent a response, a period of 30 days has elapsed:  Provided 
further, That of the funds provided for information technology systems 
development, modernization, and enhancement for the development of a 
joint or interoperable Department of Defense--Department of Veterans 
Affairs (DOD-VA) integrated electronic health record (iEHR), not more 
than 25 percent may be obligated until the DOD-VA Interagency Program 
Office submits to the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of 
Congress, and such Committees approve, a plan for expenditure that: (1) 
defines the budget and cost baseline for development of the iEHR; (2) 
identifies the deployment timeline for the system for both Departments; 
(3) breaks out annual and total spending for each Department; (4) 
relays detailed cost-sharing business rules; (5) establishes data 
standardization schedules between the Departments; (6) has been 
submitted to the Government Accountability Office for review; and (7) 
complies with the acquisition rules, requirements, guidelines, and 
systems acquisition management practices of the Federal Government:  
Provided further, That the funds made available under this heading for 
information technology systems development, modernization, and 
enhancement, shall be for the projects, and in the amounts, specified 
under this heading in the report accompanying this Act.

                      office of inspector general

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Inspector General, to 
include information technology, in carrying out the provisions of the 
Inspector General Act of 1978 (5 U.S.C. App.), $121,411,000, of which 
$6,000,000 shall remain available until September 30, 2015:  Provided, 
That the Office of the Inspector General, in coordination with the 
Department of Defense's Office of Inspector General, shall examine the 
process and procedures currently in place in the transmission of 
service treatment and personnel records from the Department of Defense 
to the Department of Veterans Affairs.

                      construction, major projects

    For constructing, altering, extending, and improving any of the 
facilities, including parking projects, under the jurisdiction or for 
the use of the Department of Veterans Affairs, or for any of the 
purposes set forth in sections 316, 2404, 2406 and chapter 81 of title 
38, United States Code, not otherwise provided for, including planning, 
architectural and engineering services, construction management 
services, maintenance or guarantee period services costs associated 
with equipment guarantees provided under the project, services of 
claims analysts, offsite utility and storm drainage system construction 
costs, and site acquisition, where the estimated cost of a project is 
more than the amount set forth in section 8104(a)(3)(A) of title 38, 
United States Code, or where funds for a project were made available in 
a previous major project appropriation, $342,130,000, of which 
$322,130,000 shall remain available until September 30, 2018, and of 
which $20,000,000 shall remain available until expended:  Provided, 
That except for advance planning activities, including needs 
assessments which may or may not lead to capital investments, and other 
capital asset management related activities, including portfolio 
development and management activities, and investment strategy studies 
funded through the advance planning fund and the planning and design 
activities funded through the design fund, including needs assessments 
which may or may not lead to capital investments, and salaries and 
associated costs of the resident engineers who oversee those capital 
investments funded through this account, and funds provided for the 
purchase of land for the National Cemetery Administration through the 
land acquisition line item, none of the funds made available under this 
heading shall be used for any project which has not been approved by 
the Congress in the budgetary process:  Provided further, That funds 
made available under this heading for fiscal year 2014, for each 
approved project shall be obligated: (1) by the awarding of a 
construction documents contract by September 30, 2014; and (2) by the 
awarding of a construction contract by September 30, 2015:  Provided 
further, That the Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall promptly submit 
to the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress a 
written report on any approved major construction project for which 
obligations are not incurred within the time limitations established 
above.

                      construction, minor projects

    For constructing, altering, extending, and improving any of the 
facilities, including parking projects, under the jurisdiction or for 
the use of the Department of Veterans Affairs, including planning and 
assessments of needs which may lead to capital investments, 
architectural and engineering services, maintenance or guarantee period 
services costs associated with equipment guarantees provided under the 
project, services of claims analysts, offsite utility and storm 
drainage system construction costs, and site acquisition, or for any of 
the purposes set forth in sections 316, 2404, 2406 and chapter 81 of 
title 38, United States Code, not otherwise provided for, where the 
estimated cost of a project is equal to or less than the amount set 
forth in section 8104(a)(3)(A) of title 38, United States Code, 
$714,870,000, to remain available until September 30, 2018, along with 
unobligated balances of previous ``Construction, minor projects'' 
appropriations which are hereby made available for any project where 
the estimated cost is equal to or less than the amount set forth in 
such section:  Provided, That funds made available under this heading 
shall be for: (1) repairs to any of the nonmedical facilities under the 
jurisdiction or for the use of the Department which are necessary 
because of loss or damage caused by any natural disaster or 
catastrophe; and (2) temporary measures necessary to prevent or to 
minimize further loss by such causes.

       grants for construction of state extended care facilities

    For grants to assist States to acquire or construct State nursing 
home and domiciliary facilities and to remodel, modify, or alter 
existing hospital, nursing home, and domiciliary facilities in State 
homes, for furnishing care to veterans as authorized by sections 8131 
through 8137 of title 38, United States Code, $85,000,000, to remain 
available until expended.

             grants for construction of veterans cemeteries

    For grants to assist States and tribal organizations in 
establishing, expanding, or improving veterans cemeteries as authorized 
by section 2408 of title 38, United States Code, $46,000,000, to remain 
available until expended.

                       Administrative Provisions

                          (transfer of funds)

    Sec. 201.  Any appropriation for fiscal year 2014 for 
``Compensation and pensions'', ``Readjustment benefits'', and 
``Veterans insurance and indemnities'' may be transferred as necessary 
to any other of the mentioned appropriations:  Provided, That before a 
transfer may take place, the Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall 
request from the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of 
Congress the authority to make the transfer and such Committees issue 
an approval, or absent a response, a period of 30 days has elapsed.

                          (transfer of funds)

    Sec. 202.  Amounts made available for the Department of Veterans 
Affairs for fiscal year 2014, in this Act or any other Act, under the 
``Medical services'', ``Medical support and compliance'', and ``Medical 
facilities'' accounts may be transferred among the accounts:  Provided, 
That any transfers between the ``Medical services'' and ``Medical 
support and compliance'' accounts of 1 percent or less of the total 
amount appropriated to the account in this or any other Act may take 
place subject to notification from the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to 
the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress of the 
amount and purpose of the transfer:  Provided further, That any 
transfers between the ``Medical services'' and ``Medical support and 
compliance'' accounts in excess of 1 percent, or exceeding the 
cumulative 1 percent for the fiscal year, may take place only after the 
Secretary requests from the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses 
of Congress the authority to make the transfer and an approval is 
issued:  Provided further, That any transfers to or from the ``Medical 
facilities'' account may take place only after the Secretary requests 
from the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress the 
authority to make the transfer and an approval is issued.
    Sec. 203.  Appropriations available in this title for salaries and 
expenses shall be available for services authorized by section 3109 of 
title 5, United States Code; hire of passenger motor vehicles; lease of 
a facility or land or both; and uniforms or allowances therefore, as 
authorized by sections 5901 through 5902 of title 5, United States 
Code.
    Sec. 204.  No appropriations in this title (except the 
appropriations for ``Construction, major projects'', and 
``Construction, minor projects'') shall be available for the purchase 
of any site for or toward the construction of any new hospital or home.
    Sec. 205.  No appropriations in this title shall be available for 
hospitalization or examination of any persons (except beneficiaries 
entitled to such hospitalization or examination under the laws 
providing such benefits to veterans, and persons receiving such 
treatment under sections 7901 through 7904 of title 5, United States 
Code, or the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency 
Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5121 et seq.)), unless reimbursement of the 
cost of such hospitalization or examination is made to the ``Medical 
services'' account at such rates as may be fixed by the Secretary of 
Veterans Affairs.
    Sec. 206.  Appropriations available in this title for 
``Compensation and pensions'', ``Readjustment benefits'', and 
``Veterans insurance and indemnities'' shall be available for payment 
of prior year accrued obligations required to be recorded by law 
against the corresponding prior year accounts within the last quarter 
of fiscal year 2013.
    Sec. 207.  Appropriations available in this title shall be 
available to pay prior year obligations of corresponding prior year 
appropriations accounts resulting from sections 3328(a), 3334, and 
3712(a) of title 31, United States Code, except that if such 
obligations are from trust fund accounts they shall be payable only 
from ``Compensation and pensions''.

                     (including transfer of funds)

    Sec. 208.  Notwithstanding any other provision of law, during 
fiscal year 2014, the Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall, from the 
National Service Life Insurance Fund under section 1920 of title 38, 
United States Code, the Veterans' Special Life Insurance Fund under 
section 1923 of title 38, United States Code, and the United States 
Government Life Insurance Fund under section 1955 of title 38, United 
States Code, reimburse the ``General operating expenses, Veterans 
Benefits Administration'' and ``Information technology systems'' 
accounts for the cost of administration of the insurance programs 
financed through those accounts:  Provided, That reimbursement shall be 
made only from the surplus earnings accumulated in such an insurance 
program during fiscal year 2014 that are available for dividends in 
that program after claims have been paid and actuarially determined 
reserves have been set aside:  Provided further, That if the cost of 
administration of such an insurance program exceeds the amount of 
surplus earnings accumulated in that program, reimbursement shall be 
made only to the extent of such surplus earnings:  Provided further, 
That the Secretary shall determine the cost of administration for 
fiscal year 2014 which is properly allocable to the provision of each 
such insurance program and to the provision of any total disability 
income insurance included in that insurance program.
    Sec. 209.  Amounts deducted from enhanced-use lease proceeds to 
reimburse an account for expenses incurred by that account during a 
prior fiscal year for providing enhanced-use lease services, may be 
obligated during the fiscal year in which the proceeds are received.

                          (transfer of funds)

    Sec. 210.  Funds available in this title or funds for salaries and 
other administrative expenses shall also be available to reimburse the 
Office of Resolution Management of the Department of Veterans Affairs 
and the Office of Employment Discrimination Complaint Adjudication 
under section 319 of title 38, United States Code, for all services 
provided at rates which will recover actual costs but not to exceed 
$42,904,000 for the Office of Resolution Management and $3,360,000 for 
the Office of Employment and Discrimination Complaint Adjudication:  
Provided, That payments may be made in advance for services to be 
furnished based on estimated costs:  Provided further, That amounts 
received shall be credited to the ``General administration'' and 
``Information technology systems'' accounts for use by the office that 
provided the service.
    Sec. 211.  No appropriations in this title shall be available to 
enter into any new lease of real property if the estimated annual 
rental cost is more than $1,000,000, unless the Secretary submits a 
report which the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of 
Congress approve within 30 days following the date on which the report 
is received.
    Sec. 212.  No funds of the Department of Veterans Affairs shall be 
available for hospital care, nursing home care, or medical services 
provided to any person under chapter 17 of title 38, United States 
Code, for a non-service-connected disability described in section 
1729(a)(2) of such title, unless that person has disclosed to the 
Secretary of Veterans Affairs, in such form as the Secretary may 
require, current, accurate third-party reimbursement information for 
purposes of section 1729 of such title:  Provided, That the Secretary 
may recover, in the same manner as any other debt due the United 
States, the reasonable charges for such care or services from any 
person who does not make such disclosure as required:  Provided 
further, That any amounts so recovered for care or services provided in 
a prior fiscal year may be obligated by the Secretary during the fiscal 
year in which amounts are received.

                     (including transfer of funds)

    Sec. 213.  Notwithstanding any other provision of law, proceeds or 
revenues derived from enhanced-use leasing activities (including 
disposal) may be deposited into the ``Construction, major projects'' 
and ``Construction, minor projects'' accounts and be used for 
construction (including site acquisition and disposition), alterations, 
and improvements of any medical facility under the jurisdiction or for 
the use of the Department of Veterans Affairs. Such sums as realized 
are in addition to the amount provided for in ``Construction, major 
projects'' and ``Construction, minor projects''.
    Sec. 214.  Amounts made available under ``Medical services'' are 
available--
            (1) for furnishing recreational facilities, supplies, and 
        equipment; and
            (2) for funeral expenses, burial expenses, and other 
        expenses incidental to funerals and burials for beneficiaries 
        receiving care in the Department.

                     (including transfer of funds)

    Sec. 215.  Such sums as may be deposited to the Medical Care 
Collections Fund pursuant to section 1729A of title 38, United States 
Code, may be transferred to ``Medical services'', to remain available 
until expended for the purposes of that account:  Provided, That, for 
fiscal year 2014, $200,000,000 deposited in the Department of Veterans 
Affairs Medical Care Collections Fund shall be transferred to ``Medical 
facilities'', to remain available until expended, for non-recurring 
maintenance at existing Veterans Health Administration medical 
facilities.
    Sec. 216.  The Secretary of Veterans Affairs may enter into 
agreements with Indian tribes and tribal organizations which are party 
to the Alaska Native Health Compact with the Indian Health Service, and 
Indian tribes and tribal organizations serving rural Alaska which have 
entered into contracts with the Indian Health Service under the Indian 
Self Determination and Educational Assistance Act, to provide 
healthcare, including behavioral health and dental care. The Secretary 
shall require participating veterans and facilities to comply with all 
appropriate rules and regulations, as established by the Secretary. The 
term ``rural Alaska'' shall mean those lands sited within the external 
boundaries of the Alaska Native regions specified in sections 7(a)(1)-
(4) and (7)-(12) of the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act, as amended 
(43 U.S.C. 1606), and those lands within the Alaska Native regions 
specified in sections 7(a)(5) and 7(a)(6) of the Alaska Native Claims 
Settlement Act, as amended (43 U.S.C. 1606), which are not within the 
boundaries of the municipality of Anchorage, the Fairbanks North Star 
Borough, the Kenai Peninsula Borough or the Matanuska Susitna Borough.

                     (including transfer of funds)

    Sec. 217.  Such sums as may be deposited to the Department of 
Veterans Affairs Capital Asset Fund pursuant to section 8118 of title 
38, United States Code, may be transferred to the ``Construction, major 
projects'' and ``Construction, minor projects'' accounts, to remain 
available until expended for the purposes of these accounts.
    Sec. 218.  None of the funds made available in this title may be 
used to implement any policy prohibiting the Directors of the Veterans 
Integrated Services Networks from conducting outreach or marketing to 
enroll new veterans within their respective Networks.
    Sec. 219.  The Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall submit to the 
Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress a quarterly 
report on the financial status of the Veterans Health Administration.

                          (transfer of funds)

    Sec. 220.  Amounts made available under the ``Medical services'', 
``Medical support and compliance'', ``Medical facilities'', ``General 
operating expenses, Veterans Benefits Administration'', ``General 
administration'', and ``National Cemetery Administration'' accounts for 
fiscal year 2014, may be transferred to or from the ``Information 
technology systems'' account:  Provided, That before a transfer may 
take place, the Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall request from the 
Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress the authority 
to make the transfer and an approval is issued.
    Sec. 221.  None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
available by this Act or any other Act for the Department of Veterans 
Affairs may be used in a manner that is inconsistent with: (1) section 
842 of the Transportation, Treasury, Housing and Urban Development, the 
Judiciary, the District of Columbia, and Independent Agencies 
Appropriations Act, 2006 (Public Law 109-115; 119 Stat. 2506); or (2) 
section 8110(a)(5) of title 38, United States Code.
    Sec. 222.  Of the amounts made available to the Department of 
Veterans Affairs for fiscal year 2014, in this Act or any other Act, 
under the ``Medical facilities'' account for nonrecurring maintenance, 
not more than 20 percent of the funds made available shall be obligated 
during the last 2 months of that fiscal year:  Provided, That the 
Secretary may waive this requirement after providing written notice to 
the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress.

                          (transfer of funds)

    Sec. 223.  Of the amounts appropriated to the Department of 
Veterans Affairs for fiscal year 2014 for ``Medical services'', 
``Medical support and compliance'', ``Medical facilities'', 
``Construction, minor projects'', and ``Information technology 
systems'', up to $254,257,000, plus reimbursements, may be transferred 
to the Joint Department of Defense-Department of Veterans Affairs 
Medical Facility Demonstration Fund, established by section 1704 of the 
National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2010 (Public Law 
111-84; 123 Stat. 3571) and may be used for operation of the facilities 
designated as combined Federal medical facilities as described by 
section 706 of the Duncan Hunter National Defense Authorization Act for 
Fiscal Year 2009 (Public Law 110-417; 122 Stat. 4500):  Provided, That 
additional funds may be transferred from accounts designated in this 
section to the Joint Department of Defense-Department of Veterans 
Affairs Medical Facility Demonstration Fund upon written notification 
by the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to the Committees on 
Appropriations of both Houses of Congress.

                     (including transfer of funds)

    Sec. 224.  Such sums as may be deposited to the Medical Care 
Collections Fund pursuant to section 1729A of title 38, United States 
Code, for healthcare provided at facilities designated as combined 
Federal medical facilities as described by section 706 of the Duncan 
Hunter National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2009 (Public 
Law 110-417; 122 Stat. 4500) shall also be available: (1) for transfer 
to the Joint Department of Defense-Department of Veterans Affairs 
Medical Facility Demonstration Fund, established by section 1704 of the 
National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2010 (Public Law 
111-84; 123 Stat. 3571); and (2) for operations of the facilities 
designated as combined Federal medical facilities as described by 
section 706 of the Duncan Hunter National Defense Authorization Act for 
Fiscal Year 2009 (Public Law 110-417; 122 Stat. 4500).

                          (transfer of funds)

    Sec. 225.  Of the amounts available in this title for ``Medical 
services'', ``Medical support and compliance'', and ``Medical 
facilities'', a minimum of $15,000,000 shall be transferred to the DOD-
VA Health Care Sharing Incentive Fund, as authorized by section 8111(d) 
of title 38, United States Code, to remain available until expended, 
for any purpose authorized by section 8111 of title 38, United States 
Code.

                        (including rescissions)

    Sec. 226. (a) Of the funds appropriated in division E of Public Law 
113-6, the following amounts which become available on October 1, 2013, 
are hereby rescinded from the following accounts in the amounts 
specified:
            (1) ``Department of Veterans Affairs, Medical services'', 
        $1,500,000,000.
            (2) ``Department of Veterans Affairs, Medical support and 
        compliance'', $200,000,000.
            (3) ``Department of Veterans Affairs, Medical facilities'', 
        $250,000,000.
    (b) In addition to amounts provided elsewhere in this Act, an 
additional amount is appropriated to the following accounts in the 
amounts specified to remain available until September 30, 2015:
            (1) ``Department of Veterans Affairs, Medical services'', 
        $1,500,000,000.
            (2) ``Department of Veterans Affairs, Medical support and 
        compliance'', $150,000,000.
            (3) ``Department of Veterans Affairs, Medical facilities'', 
        $250,000,000.
    Sec. 227.  The Secretary of the Department of Veterans Affairs 
shall notify the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of 
Congress of all bid savings in major construction projects that total 
at least $5,000,000, or 5 percent of the programmed amount of the 
project, whichever is less:  Provided, That such notification shall 
occur within 14 days of a contract identifying the programmed amount:  
Provided further, That the Secretary shall notify the Committees on 
Appropriations of both Houses of Congress 14 days prior to the 
obligation of such bid savings and shall describe the anticipated use 
of such savings.
    Sec. 228.  The scope of work for a project included in 
``Construction, major projects'' may not be increased above the scope 
specified for that project in the original justification data provided 
to the Congress as part of the request for appropriations.
    Sec. 229.  None of the funds made available in this Act may be used 
to enter into a contract using procedures that do not give to small 
business concerns owned and controlled by veterans (as that term is 
defined in section 3(q)(3) of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 
632(q)(3)) that are included in the database under section 8127(f) of 
title 38, United States Code, any preference available with respect to 
such contract, except for a preference given to small business concerns 
owned and controlled by service-disabled veterans (as defined in 
section 3(q)(2) of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 632(q)(2)).
    Sec. 230.  The Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall submit to the 
Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress a quarterly 
report that contains the following information from each Veterans 
Benefits Administration Regional Office: (1) the average time to 
complete a disability compensation claim; (2) the number of claims 
pending more than 125 days; (3) error rates; (4) the number of claims 
personnel; (5) any corrective action taken within the quarter to 
address poor performance; (6) training programs undertaken; and (7) the 
number and results of Quality Review Team audits:  Provided, That each 
quarterly report shall be submitted no later than 30 days after the end 
of the respective quarter.

                               TITLE III

                            RELATED AGENCIES

                  American Battle Monuments Commission

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses, not otherwise provided for, of the American 
Battle Monuments Commission, including the acquisition of land or 
interest in land in foreign countries; purchases and repair of uniforms 
for caretakers of national cemeteries and monuments outside of the 
United States and its territories and possessions; rent of office and 
garage space in foreign countries; purchase (one-for-one replacement 
basis only) and hire of passenger motor vehicles; not to exceed $7,500 
for official reception and representation expenses; and insurance of 
official motor vehicles in foreign countries, when required by law of 
such countries, $63,200,000, to remain available until expended.

                 foreign currency fluctuations account

    For necessary expenses, not otherwise provided for, of the American 
Battle Monuments Commission, such sums as may be necessary, to remain 
available until expended, for purposes authorized by section 2109 of 
title 36, United States Code.

           United States Court of Appeals for Veterans Claims

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses for the operation of the United States Court 
of Appeals for Veterans Claims as authorized by sections 7251 through 
7298 of title 38, United States Code, $35,408,000:  Provided, That 
$2,500,000 shall be available for the purpose of providing financial 
assistance as described, and in accordance with the process and 
reporting procedures set forth, under this heading in Public Law 102-
229.

                      Department of Defense--Civil

                       Cemeterial Expenses, Army

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses for maintenance, operation, and improvement 
of Arlington National Cemetery and Soldiers' and Airmen's Home National 
Cemetery, including the purchase or lease of passenger motor vehicles 
for replacement on a one-for-one basis only, and not to exceed $1,000 
for official reception and representation expenses, $70,800,000, of 
which not to exceed $7,000,000 shall remain available until September 
30, 2015. In addition, such sums as may be necessary for parking 
maintenance, repairs and replacement, to be derived from the ``Lease of 
Department of Defense Real Property for Defense Agencies'' account. 
Funds appropriated in this Act under the heading, ``Department of 
Defense--Civil, Cemeterial Expenses, Army'', may be provided to 
Arlington County, Virginia, for the relocation of the federally owned 
water main at Arlington National Cemetery, making additional land 
available for ground burials.

                      Armed Forces Retirement Home

                               trust fund

    For expenses necessary for the Armed Forces Retirement Home to 
operate and maintain the Armed Forces Retirement Home--Washington, 
District of Columbia, and the Armed Forces Retirement Home--Gulfport, 
Mississippi, to be paid from funds available in the Armed Forces 
Retirement Home Trust Fund, $67,800,000, of which $1,000,000 shall 
remain available until expended for construction and renovation of the 
physical plants at the Armed Forces Retirement Home--Washington, 
District of Columbia, and the Armed Forces Retirement Home--Gulfport, 
Mississippi.

                                TITLE IV

                           GENERAL PROVISIONS

    Sec. 401.  No part of any appropriation contained in this Act shall 
remain available for obligation beyond the current fiscal year unless 
expressly so provided herein.
    Sec. 402.  None of the funds made available in this Act may be used 
for any program, project, or activity, when it is made known to the 
Federal entity or official to which the funds are made available that 
the program, project, or activity is not in compliance with any Federal 
law relating to risk assessment, the protection of private property 
rights, or unfunded mandates.
    Sec. 403.  Such sums as may be necessary for fiscal year 2014 for 
pay raises for programs funded by this Act shall be absorbed within the 
levels appropriated in this Act.
    Sec. 404.  No part of any funds appropriated in this Act shall be 
used by an agency of the executive branch, other than for normal and 
recognized executive-legislative relationships, for publicity or 
propaganda purposes, and for the preparation, distribution, or use of 
any kit, pamphlet, booklet, publication, radio, television, or film 
presentation designed to support or defeat legislation pending before 
Congress, except in presentation to Congress itself.
    Sec. 405.  All departments and agencies funded under this Act are 
encouraged, within the limits of the existing statutory authorities and 
funding, to expand their use of ``E-Commerce'' technologies and 
procedures in the conduct of their business practices and public 
service activities.
    Sec. 406.  Unless stated otherwise, all reports and notifications 
required by this Act shall be submitted to the Subcommittee on Military 
Construction and Veterans Affairs, and Related Agencies of the 
Committee on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the 
Subcommittee on Military Construction and Veterans Affairs, and Related 
Agencies of the Committee on Appropriations of the Senate.
    Sec. 407.  None of the funds made available in this Act may be 
transferred to any department, agency, or instrumentality of the United 
States Government except pursuant to a transfer made by, or transfer 
authority provided in, this or any other appropriations Act.
    Sec. 408. (a) Any agency receiving funds made available in this 
Act, shall, subject to subsections (b) and (c), post on the public Web 
site of that agency any report required to be submitted by the Congress 
in this or any other Act, upon the determination by the head of the 
agency that it shall serve the national interest.
    (b) Subsection (a) shall not apply to a report if--
            (1) the public posting of the report compromises national 
        security; or
            (2) the report contains confidential or proprietary 
        information.
    (c) The head of the agency posting such report shall do so only 
after such report has been made available to the requesting Committee 
or Committees of Congress for no less than 45 days.
    Sec. 409. (a) None of the funds made available in this Act may be 
used to maintain or establish a computer network unless such network 
blocks the viewing, downloading, and exchanging of pornography.
    (b) Nothing in subsection (a) shall limit the use of funds 
necessary for any Federal, State, tribal, or local law enforcement 
agency or any other entity carrying out criminal investigations, 
prosecution, or adjudication activities.
    Sec. 410. (a) In General.--None of the funds appropriated or 
otherwise made available to the Department of Defense in this Act may 
be used to construct, renovate, or expand any facility in the United 
States, its territories, or possessions to house any individual 
detained at United States Naval Station, Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, for the 
purposes of detention or imprisonment in the custody or under the 
control of the Department of Defense.
    (b) The prohibition in subsection (a) shall not apply to any 
modification of facilities at United States Naval Station, Guantanamo 
Bay, Cuba.
    (c) An individual described in this subsection is any individual 
who, as of June 24, 2009, is located at United States Naval Station, 
Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, and who--
            (1) is not a citizen of the United States or a member of 
        the Armed Forces of the United States; and
            (2) is--
                    (A) in the custody or under the effective control 
                of the Department of Defense; or
                    (B) otherwise under detention at United States 
                Naval Station, Guantanamo Bay, Cuba.
    Sec. 411.  None of the funds made available in this Act may be used 
to send or otherwise pay for the attendance of more than 50 employees 
from a Federal department or agency that are stationed within the 
United States at any single conference occurring outside a state of the 
United States, except for employees of the Department of Veterans 
Affairs stationed in the Philippines, unless the relevant Secretary 
reports to the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress 
at least 5 days in advance that such attendance is important to the 
national interest.
    Sec. 412. (a) The head of any executive branch department, agency, 
board, commission, or office funded by this Act shall submit annual 
reports to the Inspector General or senior ethics official for any 
entity without an Inspector General, regarding the costs and 
contracting procedures related to each conference held by any such 
department, agency, board, commission, or office during fiscal year 
2014 for which the cost to the United States Government was more than 
$100,000.
    (b) Each report submitted shall include, for each conference 
described in subsection (a) held during the applicable period--
            (1) a description of its purpose;
            (2) the number of participants attending;
            (3) a detailed statement of the costs to the United States 
        Government, including--
                    (A) the cost of any food or beverages;
                    (B) the cost of any audio-visual services;
                    (C) the cost of employee or contractor travel to 
                and from the conference; and
                    (D) a discussion of the methodology used to 
                determine which costs relate to the conference; and
            (4) a description of the contracting procedures used 
        including--
                    (A) whether contracts were awarded on a competitive 
                basis; and
                    (B) a discussion of any cost comparison conducted 
                by the departmental component or office in evaluating 
                potential contractors for the conference.
    (c) Within 15 days of the date of a conference held by any 
executive branch department, agency, board, commission, or office 
funded by this Act during fiscal year 2014 for which the cost to the 
United States Government was more than $20,000, the head of any such 
department, agency, board, commission, or office shall notify the 
Inspector General or senior ethics official for any entity without an 
Inspector General, of the date, location, and number of employees 
attending such conference.
    (d) A grant or contract funded by amounts appropriated by this Act 
to an executive branch agency may not be used for the purpose of 
defraying the costs of a conference described in subsection (c) that is 
not directly and programmatically related to the purpose for which the 
grant or contract was awarded, such as a conference held in connection 
with planning, training, assessment, review, or other routine purposes 
related to a project funded by the grant or contract.
    (e) None of the funds made available in this Act may be used for 
travel and conference activities that are not in compliance with Office 
of Management and Budget Memorandum M-12-12 dated May 11, 2012.

sense of the senate regarding an immediate budget resolution conference

    Sec. 413.  It is the sense of the Senate that the Senate should 
immediately request a conference with the House on the fiscal year 2014 
budget, appoint conferees to resolve the differences in a conference 
committee with the House, and immediately thereafter convene a 
conference committee to work in a bipartisan, bicameral manner to 
complete work on a final fiscal year 2014 budget conference report.
     This Act may be cited as the ``Military Construction and Veterans 
Affairs, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2014''.
                                                       Calendar No. 102

113th CONGRESS

  1st Session

                               H. R. 2216

                          [Report No. 113-48]

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 AN ACT

  Making appropriations for military construction, the Department of 
   Veterans Affairs, and related agencies for the fiscal year ending 
              September 30, 2014, and for other purposes.

_______________________________________________________________________

                              June 6, 2013

  Received; read twice and referred to the Committee on Appropriations

                             June 27, 2013

                       Reported with an amendment
