
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H. Res. 757 Introduced in House (IH)]

113th CONGRESS
  2d Session
H. RES. 757

   Providing for authority to initiate litigation for actions by the 
 President or other executive branch officials inconsistent with their 
duties under the Constitution of the United States with respect to the 
                implementation of the immigration laws.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                           November 17, 2014

 Mr. Brooks of Alabama (for himself, Mr. Culberson, Mrs. Bachmann, Mr. 
   Stockman, Mr. Gosar, and Mr. McClintock) submitted the following 
   resolution; which was referred to the Committee on Rules, and in 
 addition to the Committee on House Administration, for a period to be 
subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration 
  of such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the committee 
                               concerned

_______________________________________________________________________

                               RESOLUTION


 
   Providing for authority to initiate litigation for actions by the 
 President or other executive branch officials inconsistent with their 
duties under the Constitution of the United States with respect to the 
                implementation of the immigration laws.

    Resolved, That the Speaker is authorized to initiate or intervene 
in one or more civil actions on behalf of the House of Representatives 
in a Federal court of competent jurisdiction to seek any appropriate 
relief regarding the failure of the President, the head of any 
department or agency, or any other officer or employee of the executive 
branch, to act in a manner consistent with that official's duties under 
the Constitution and laws of the United States with respect to 
immigration laws or laws pertaining or relating to illegal aliens, 
undocumented immigrants, or non-American citizens. The phrase 
``appropriate relief'' includes but is not limited to all forms of 
equitable relief, including a declaratory judgment action to determine 
the meaning of laws and whether they are being obeyed or disobeyed, and 
a writ of mandamus, temporary restraining order, preliminary 
injunction, permanent injunction, and such other relief as is necessary 
to compel obedience to law.
    Sec. 2.  The Speaker shall notify the House of Representatives of a 
decision to initiate or intervene in any civil action pursuant to this 
resolution.
    Sec. 3. (a) The Office of the General Counsel of the House of 
Representatives, at the direction of the Speaker, shall represent the 
House in any civil action initiated, or in which the House intervenes, 
pursuant to this resolution, and may employ the services of outside 
counsel and other experts for this purpose.
    (b) The chair of the Committee on House Administration shall cause 
to be printed in the Congressional Record a statement setting forth the 
aggregate amounts expended by the Office of General Counsel on outside 
counsel and other experts pursuant to subsection (a) on a quarterly 
basis. Such statement shall be submitted for printing not more than 30 
days after the expiration of each such period.
                                 <all>
