
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[S. 1617 Introduced in Senate (IS)]

113th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                S. 1617

To amend the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act to ensure that 
         individuals can keep their health insurance coverage.


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                            October 30, 2013

 Mr. Johnson of Wisconsin (for himself, Ms. Ayotte, Mr. Barrasso, Mr. 
Blunt, Mr. Boozman, Mr. Chambliss, Mr. Chiesa, Mr. Coburn, Mr. Cochran, 
Ms. Collins, Mr. Cornyn, Mr. Crapo, Mr. Enzi, Mrs. Fischer, Mr. Flake, 
   Mr. Grassley, Mr. Hatch, Mr. Hoeven, Mr. Inhofe, Mr. Isakson, Mr. 
Johanns, Mr. Kirk, Mr. McCain, Mr. McConnell, Mr. Moran, Mr. Paul, Mr. 
 Portman, Mr. Risch, Mr. Roberts, Mr. Rubio, Mr. Scott, Mr. Sessions, 
  Mr. Thune, Mr. Toomey, Mr. Vitter, Mr. Wicker, Mr. Graham, and Mr. 
    Corker) introduced the following bill; which was read twice and 
  referred to the Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
To amend the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act to ensure that 
         individuals can keep their health insurance coverage.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``If You Like Your Health Plan, You 
Can Keep it Act''.

SEC. 2. AMENDMENT TO THE PATIENT PROTECTION AND AFFORDABLE CARE ACT.

    (a) In General.--Part 2 of subtitle C of title I of the Patient 
Protection and Affordable Care Act (42 U.S.C. 18011 et seq.) is amended 
by striking section 1251 and inserting the following:

``SEC. 1251. FREEDOM TO MAINTAIN EXISTING COVERAGE.

    ``(a) No Changes to Existing Coverage.--
            ``(1) In general.--Nothing in this Act (or an amendment 
        made by this Act) shall be construed to require that an 
        individual terminate coverage under a group health plan or 
        health insurance coverage in which such individual was enrolled 
        during any part of the period beginning on the date of 
        enactment of this Act and ending on December 31, 2013.
            ``(2) Continuation of coverage.--With respect to a group 
        health plan or health insurance coverage in which an individual 
        was enrolled during any part of the period beginning on the 
        date of enactment of this Act and ending on December 31, 2013, 
        this subtitle and subtitle A (and the amendments made by such 
        subtitles) shall not apply to such plan or coverage, regardless 
        of whether the individual renews such coverage.
    ``(b) Allowance for Family Members To Join Current Coverage.--With 
respect to a group health plan or health insurance coverage in which an 
individual was enrolled during any part of the period beginning on the 
date of enactment of this Act and ending on December 31, 2013, and 
which is renewed, family members of such individual shall be permitted 
to enroll in such plan or coverage if such enrollment is permitted 
under the terms of the plan in effect as of such date of enrollment.
    ``(c) Allowance for New Employees To Join Current Plan.--A group 
health plan that provides coverage during any part of the period 
beginning on the date of enactment of this Act and ending on December 
31, 2013, may provide for the enrolling of new employees (and their 
families) in such plan, and this subtitle and subtitle A (and the 
amendments made by such subtitles) shall not apply with respect to such 
plan and such new employees (and their families).
    ``(d) Effect on Collective Bargaining Agreements.--In the case of 
health insurance coverage maintained pursuant to one or more collective 
bargaining agreements between employee representatives and one or more 
employers that was ratified before December 31, 2013, the provisions of 
this subtitle and subtitle A (and the amendments made by such 
subtitles) shall not apply until the date on which the last of the 
collective bargaining agreements relating to the coverage terminates. 
Any coverage amendment made pursuant to a collective bargaining 
agreement relating to the coverage which amends the coverage solely to 
conform to any requirement added by this subtitle or subtitle A (or 
amendments) shall not be treated as a termination of such collective 
bargaining agreement.
    ``(e) Definition.--In this title, the term `grandfathered health 
plan' means any group health plan or health insurance coverage to which 
this section applies.''.
    (b) Effective Date.--The amendment made by subsection (a) shall 
take effect as if included in the Patient Protection and Affordable 
Care Act (Public Law 111-148).
                                 <all>
