
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 1271 Introduced in House (IH)]

113th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                H. R. 1271

To amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to allow employers a credit 
    against income tax as an incentive to partner with educational 
         institutions to provide skills training for students.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                             March 19, 2013

  Mr. Takano introduced the following bill; which was referred to the 
                      Committee on Ways and Means

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
To amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to allow employers a credit 
    against income tax as an incentive to partner with educational 
         institutions to provide skills training for students.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Job Skills for America's Students 
Act of 2013''.

SEC. 2. CREDIT FOR EMPLOYERS WHICH PARTNER WITH EDUCATIONAL 
              INSTITUTIONS TO PROVIDE SKILLS TRAINING FOR STUDENTS.

    (a) In General.--Subpart D of part IV of subchapter A of chapter 1 
of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (relating to business-related 
credits) is amended by adding at the end the following new section:

``SEC. 45S. EMPLOYERS PARTNERING WITH EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTIONS TO 
              PROVIDE SKILLS TRAINING FOR STUDENTS.

    ``(a) General Rule.--For purposes of section 38, the employer 
partnering credit determined under this section for any taxable year is 
an amount equal to $2,000 for each student participating in a qualified 
partnering program with the employer.
    ``(b) Maximum Credit.--
            ``(1) In general.--The maximum credit determined under this 
        section for the taxable year shall not exceed $10,000.
            ``(2) Controlled groups.--For purposes of paragraph (1), 
        all persons treated as a single employer under subsection (b), 
        (c), (m), or (o) of section 414 shall be treated as a single 
        employer.
    ``(c) Qualified Partnering Program.--For purposes of this section, 
the term `qualified partnering program' means--
            ``(1) any Community College and Career Training Grant 
        awarded under section 278 of the Trade Act of 1974 (19 U.S.C. 
        2372),
            ``(2) any grant awarded under section 414(c) of the 
        American Competitiveness and Workforce Improvement Act of 1998 
        (29 U.S.C. 2916a),
            ``(3) any program under section 834 of the Higher Education 
        Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1161n-3) with alternating or parallel 
        periods of academic study and of public or private employment, 
        and
            ``(4) any other program which is approved by the Secretary 
        of Education or the Secretary of Labor for purposes of this 
        section.
    ``(d) Certain Rules To Apply.--For purposes of this section, rules 
similar to the rules of subsections (c), (d), and (e) of section 52 
shall apply.''.
    (b) Credit To Be Part of General Business Credit.--Section 38(b) of 
the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 is amended by striking ``plus'' at 
the end of paragraph (35), by striking the period at the end of 
paragraph (36) and inserting ``, plus'', and by adding at the end the 
following new paragraph:
            ``(37) the employer partnering credit determined under 
        section 45S.''.
    (c) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections for subpart D of 
part IV of subchapter A of chapter 1 of the Internal Revenue Code of 
1986 is amended by adding at the end the following new item:

``Sec. 45S. Employers partnering with educational institutions to 
                            provide skills training for students.''.
    (d) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this section shall 
apply to taxable years beginning after the date of the enactment of 
this Act.
                                 <all>
