
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 1668 Introduced in House (IH)]

113th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                H. R. 1668

To increase the number of tenant-based rental assistance vouchers made 
    available for low-income families displaced by Hurricane Sandy.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                             April 23, 2013

Ms. Velazquez (for herself, Mr. Rangel, Mr. Serrano, and Mr. Jeffries) 
 introduced the following bill; which was referred to the Committee on 
Financial Services, and in addition to the Committees on Appropriations 
   and the Budget, for a period to be subsequently determined by the 
  Speaker, in each case for consideration of such provisions as fall 
           within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
To increase the number of tenant-based rental assistance vouchers made 
    available for low-income families displaced by Hurricane Sandy.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Safely Sheltering Disaster Victims 
Act of 2013''.

SEC. 2. TRANSFER OF AMOUNTS TO PROVIDE TENANT-BASED RENTAL ASSISTANCE 
              FOR LOW-INCOME FAMILIES DISPLACED BY HURRICANE SANDY.

    (a) Transfer.--Of the amounts made available for ``Department of 
Housing and Urban Development--Community Planning and Development--
Community Development Fund'' in title VIII of the Disaster Relief 
Appropriations Act, 2013 (division A of Public Law 113-2; 127 Stat. 
15), $50,000,000, to remain available until expended, is hereby 
transferred to ``Department of Housing and Urban Development--Public 
and Indian Housing--Tenant-Based Rental Assistance'' for an additional 
amount for the activities and assistance provided in this section.
    (b) Use for Disaster Assistance.--The amounts transferred by 
subsection (a) shall be used only for activities and assistance for the 
provision of tenant-based rental assistance, including related 
administrative expenses, authorized under the United States Housing Act 
of 1937 (42 U.S.C. 1437 et seq.) to areas impacted by Hurricane Sandy, 
subject to the following requirements:
            (1) Expedited availability.--The amounts transferred by 
        subsection (a) shall be made available for such tenant-based 
        rental assistance not later than the expiration of the 60-day 
        period that begins on the date of the enactment of this Act.
            (2) Waiver of pha project-based limitation.--In carrying 
        out the activities authorized under this heading, the Secretary 
        shall waive section 8(o)(13)(B) of the United States Housing 
        Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C. 1437f(o)(13)(B)).
            (3) Local admissions preference.--Amounts transferred by 
        subsection (a) may be provided only to public housing agencies 
        that agree to provide a preference, pursuant to section 
        8(o)(6)(A) of the United States Housing Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C. 
        1437f(o)(6)(A)), for making tenant-based assistance under such 
        section 8(o) available to eligible families displaced by 
        Hurricane Sandy.
            (4) Eligible families.--Amounts transferred by subsection 
        (a) may be used only for tenant-based rental assistance for 
        families that are otherwise eligible for such assistance under 
        the terms of the program for such assistance under section 8(o) 
        of the United States Housing Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C. 1437f(o)).
            (5) Continuation of assistance.--An eligible family that is 
        provided tenant-based rental assistance with amounts 
        transferred by subsection (a) may continue to receive such 
        assistance after the transferred amounts are no longer 
        available for such assistance, subject to the eligibility of 
        such family and the availability of amounts for such assistance 
        made available in appropriation Acts.
    (c) Emergency Designation.--Amounts transferred under subsection 
(a) shall retain their designation as an emergency requirement pursuant 
to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
Control Act of 1985.
                                 <all>
