
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[S. 182 Reported in Senate (RS)]

                                                       Calendar No. 629
113th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                 S. 182

                          [Report No. 113-289]

To provide for the unencumbering of title to non-Federal land owned by 
the city of Anchorage, Alaska, for purposes of economic development by 
       conveyance of the Federal reversion interest to the City.


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                            January 30, 2013

  Ms. Murkowski (for herself and Mr. Begich) introduced the following 
bill; which was read twice and referred to the Committee on Energy and 
                           Natural Resources

                           December 10, 2014

              Reported by Ms. Landrieu, with an amendment
 [Strike out all after the enacting clause and insert the part printed 
                               in italic]

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
To provide for the unencumbering of title to non-Federal land owned by 
the city of Anchorage, Alaska, for purposes of economic development by 
       conveyance of the Federal reversion interest to the City.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

<DELETED>SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.</DELETED>

<DELETED>    This Act may be cited as the ``Anchorage Land Conveyance 
Act of 2013''.</DELETED>

<DELETED>SEC. 2. DEFINITIONS.</DELETED>

<DELETED>    In this Act:</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    (1) City.--The term ``City'' means the city of 
        Anchorage, Alaska.</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    (2) Non-federal land.--The term ``non-Federal 
        land'' means certain parcels of land located in the City and 
        owned by the City, which are more particularly described as 
        follows:</DELETED>
                <DELETED>    (A) Block 42, Original Townsite of 
                Anchorage, Anchorage Recording District, Third Judicial 
                District, State of Alaska, consisting of approximately 
                1.93 acres, commonly known as the Egan Center, 
                Petrovich Park, and Old City Hall.</DELETED>
                <DELETED>    (B) Lots 9, 10, and 11, Block 66, Original 
                Townsite of Anchorage, Anchorage Recording District, 
                Third Judicial District, State of Alaska, consisting of 
                approximately 0.48 acres, commonly known as the parking 
                lot at 7th Avenue and I Street.</DELETED>
                <DELETED>    (C) Lot 13, Block 15, Original Townsite of 
                Anchorage, Anchorage Recording District, Third Judicial 
                District, State of Alaska, consisting of approximately 
                0.24 acres, an unimproved vacant lot located at H 
                Street and Christensen Drive.</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    (3) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the 
        Secretary of the Interior.</DELETED>

<DELETED>SEC. 3. CONVEYANCE OF REVERSIONARY INTERESTS, ANCHORAGE, 
              ALASKA.</DELETED>

<DELETED>    (a) In General.--Notwithstanding any other provision of 
law, the Secretary shall convey to the City, without consideration, the 
reversionary interests of the United States in and to the non-Federal 
land for the purpose of unencumbering the title to the non-Federal land 
to enable economic development of the non-Federal land.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    (b) Legal Descriptions.--As soon as practicable after the 
date of enactment of this Act, the exact legal descriptions of the non-
Federal land shall be determined in a manner satisfactory to the 
Secretary.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    (c) Additional Terms and Conditions.--The Secretary may 
require such additional terms and conditions to the conveyance under 
subsection (a) as the Secretary considers appropriate to protect the 
interests of the United States.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    (d) Costs.--The City shall pay all costs associated with 
the conveyance under subsection (a), including the costs of any 
surveys, recording costs, and other reasonable costs.</DELETED>

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Anchorage Land Conveyance Act of 
2014''.

SEC. 2. CONVEYANCE OF FEDERAL REVERSIONARY INTEREST IN LAND LOCATED IN 
              ANCHORAGE, ALASKA.

    (a) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Municipality.--The term ``Municipality'' means the 
        municipality of Anchorage, Alaska.
            (2) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary 
        of the Interior.
    (b) Conveyance Required.--If, during the 1-year period beginning on 
the date of completion of the appraisal required by subsection (d), the 
Municipality submits to the Secretary an offer to acquire the Federal 
reversionary interest in all land described in subsection (c), the 
Secretary shall convey to the Municipality that reversionary interest 
by not later than 30 days after the date of receipt of the offer.
    (c) Description of Land.--The land referred to in subsection (b) is 
described as follows:
            (1) Block 42, Original Townsite of Anchorage, Anchorage 
        Recording District, Third Judicial District, State of Alaska, 
        consisting of approximately 1.93 acres, commonly known as ``The 
        Egan Center'', ``Petrovich Park'', and ``Old City Hall''.
            (2) Lots 9, 10, and 11, Block 66, Original Townsite of 
        Anchorage, Anchorage Recording District, Third Judicial 
        District, State of Alaska, consisting of approximately 0.48 
        acres, commonly known as ``the parking lot at 7th Avenue and I 
        Street''.
            (3) Lot 13, Block 15, Original Townsite of Anchorage, 
        Anchorage Recording District, Third Judicial District, State of 
        Alaska, consisting of approximately 0.24 acres of an unimproved 
        vacant lot located at H Street and Christensen Drive.
    (d) Appraisal.--
            (1) In general.--Subject to paragraph (2), not later than 
        180 days after the date on which the Secretary selects an 
        appraiser that is mutually acceptable to the Secretary and the 
        Municipality under paragraph (2)(A), the Secretary shall 
        complete an appraisal of the Federal reversionary interest in 
        the land described in subsection (c).
            (2) Requirements.--The appraisal under paragraph (1) shall 
        be--
                    (A) conducted by an appraiser that is mutually 
                acceptable to the Secretary and the Municipality; and
                    (B) completed in accordance with the Uniform 
                Appraisal Standards for Federal Land Acquisitions and 
                the Uniform Standards of Professional Appraisal 
                Practice.
    (e) Consideration.--
            (1) In general.--As consideration for conveyance of the 
        Federal reversionary interest under subsection (b), the 
        Municipality shall pay to the Secretary an amount equal to the 
        appraised value of the Federal reversionary interest, as 
        determined by the appraisal under subsection (d).
            (2) Deadline.--The consideration under paragraph (1) shall 
        be paid not later than 30 days after the date of the 
        conveyance.
    (f) Costs of Conveyance.--As a condition of the conveyance of the 
Federal reversionary interest under subsection (b), all costs 
associated with the conveyance, including the cost of the appraisal 
required by subsection (d), shall be paid by the Municipality.
                                                       Calendar No. 629

113th CONGRESS

  2d Session

                                 S. 182

                          [Report No. 113-289]

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL

To provide for the unencumbering of title to non-Federal land owned by 
the city of Anchorage, Alaska, for purposes of economic development by 
       conveyance of the Federal reversion interest to the City.

_______________________________________________________________________

                           December 10, 2014

                       Reported with an amendment
