
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 1128 Introduced in House (IH)]

113th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                H. R. 1128

To ensure the effectiveness of the missile defense system of the United 
                    States, and for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                             March 13, 2013

 Mr. Brooks of Alabama (for himself, Mr. Franks of Arizona, Mr. Rogers 
of Alabama, Mr. Lamborn, Mr. Bridenstine, Mr. Turner, Mr. Aderholt, and 
  Mr. Jones) introduced the following bill; which was referred to the 
   Committee on Armed Services, and in addition to the Committee on 
  Foreign Affairs, for a period to be subsequently determined by the 
  Speaker, in each case for consideration of such provisions as fall 
           within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
To ensure the effectiveness of the missile defense system of the United 
                    States, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Protecting U.S. Missile Defense 
Information Act of 2013''.

SEC. 2. REPORT AND BRIEFINGS ON MISSILE DEFENSE DISCUSSIONS BETWEEN THE 
              UNITED STATES AND THE RUSSIAN FEDERATION.

    (a) Report Required.--The President shall submit to the 
congressional defense committees a semi-annual report on any 
discussions on missile defense between the United States Government and 
the Government of the Russian Federation during the preceding 6-month 
period.
    (b) Matters To Be Included.--The report required by subsection (a) 
shall include the following with respect to any such discussions:
            (1) The date or dates of the discussions.
            (2) The official or officials of each government taking 
        part in the discussions.
            (3) A summary of the discussions.
            (4) A copy of any documents or other materials exchanged 
        during or as a result of the discussions.
    (c) Initial Report.--The initial report required by subsection (a) 
shall be submitted not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act and in addition to addressing any such 
discussions during the preceding 6-month period shall also address any 
such discussions during the 10-year period ending on the date of the 
enactment of this Act.
    (d) Form.--The reports required by subsection (a) shall be 
submitted in unclassified form, but may contain a classified annex, if 
necessary.
    (e) Congressional Briefings.--In conjunction with the submission of 
the report required by subsection (a), the President shall brief the 
congressional defense committees on the matters contained in the report 
and any other matters relating to the report that the President 
determines to be appropriate.

SEC. 3. REPORTS AND BRIEFINGS ON DECLASSIFICATION OF CERTAIN MISSILE 
              DEFENSE INFORMATION.

    (a) Report Required.--The President shall submit to the 
congressional defense committees a semi-annual report on meetings held 
by the National Disclosure Policy Committee with respect to 
declassifying documents containing information on the missile defense 
systems of the United States.
    (b) Matters To Be Included.--The report required by subsection (a) 
shall include the following with respect to any such meetings:
            (1) The date of the meeting.
            (2) A description of the documents considered by the 
        National Disclosure Policy Committee during the meeting.
            (3) The determination made by the Committee with respect to 
        declassifying such documents, including a summary of the 
        reasoning used to make such determination.
    (c) Initial Report.--The initial report required by subsection (a) 
shall be submitted not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act and in addition to addressing any such meetings 
during the preceding 6-month period shall also address any such 
meetings during the 10-year period ending on the date of the enactment 
of this Act.
    (d) Form.--The reports required by subsection (a) shall be 
submitted in unclassified form, but may contain a classified annex, if 
necessary.
    (e) Congressional Briefings.--In conjunction with the submission of 
the report required by subsection (a), the President shall brief the 
congressional defense committees on the matters contained in the report 
and any other matters relating to the report that the President 
determines to be appropriate.

SEC. 4. LIMITATION ON FUNDS TO PROVIDE THE RUSSIAN FEDERATION WITH 
              ACCESS TO CERTAIN MISSILE DEFENSE TECHNOLOGY.

    None of the funds authorized to be appropriated or otherwise made 
available for fiscal year 2014 or any fiscal year thereafter for the 
Department of Defense may be used to provide the Russian Federation 
with access to information regarding--
            (1) missile defense technology of the United States 
        relating to hit-to-kill technology; or
            (2) telemetry data with respect to missile defense 
        interceptors or target vehicles.

SEC. 5. LIMITATION ON FUNDS TO NEGOTIATE OR IMPLEMENT EXECUTIVE 
              AGREEMENTS RELATING TO UNITED STATES MISSILE DEFENSE 
              CAPABILITIES.

    (a) Statement of Policy.--Congress declares that the United States 
shall not be bound, politically or otherwise, by the terms of any 
executive agreement relating to the missile defense capabilities of the 
United States, including basing, locations, capabilities, and numbers 
of missiles with respect to such missile defense capabilities.
    (b) Limitation on Funds.--None of the funds authorized to be 
appropriated or otherwise made available for fiscal year 2014 or any 
fiscal year thereafter for the Department of Defense may be used--
            (1) to negotiate or implement any executive agreement 
        relating to the missile defense capabilities of the United 
        States, including basing, locations, capabilities, and numbers 
        of missiles with respect to such missile defense capabilities; 
        or
            (2) to implement rules of engagement or Guidance for 
        Employment of Force relating to such executive agreement.
    (c) Rule of Construction.--Subsection (b) shall not apply with 
respect to the use of funds to negotiate or implement any executive 
agreement with a country with respect to which the United States has 
entered into a treaty of alliance or has a security guarantee.
    (d) Executive Agreement Defined.--In this section, the term 
``executive agreement'' means an international agreement other than--
            (1) an agreement that is in the form of a treaty under 
        article II, section 2, clause 2 of the Constitution of the 
        United States; or
            (2) an agreement that requires implementing legislation to 
        be enacted into law for the agreement to enter into force with 
        respect to the United States.

SEC. 6. DISCLOSURE OF AND REPORT ON RUSSIAN FEDERATION SUPPORT OF 
              BALLISTIC MISSILE DEFENSE PROGRAMS OF CHINA, SYRIA, IRAN, 
              AND NORTH KOREA.

    (a) Disclosure of Support.--The President shall seek to encourage 
the Government of the Russian Federation to disclose any support by the 
Russian Federation or Russian entities for the ballistic missile 
programs of the People's Republic of China, Syria, Iran, or North 
Korea.
    (b) Report Required.--The President shall submit to the 
congressional defense committees a semi-annual report on any disclosure 
by the Government of the Russian Federation of any such support during 
the preceding 6-month period.
    (c) Initial Report.--The initial report required by subsection (b) 
shall be submitted not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act and in addition to addressing any such support 
during the preceding 6-month period shall also address any such support 
during the 10-year period ending on the date of the enactment of this 
Act.
    (d) Form.--The report required by subsection (b) shall be submitted 
in unclassified form, but may contain a classified annex, if necessary.

SEC. 7. CONGRESSIONAL DEFENSE COMMITTEES DEFINED.

    In this Act, the term ``congressional defense committees'' has the 
meaning given that term in section 101(a)(16) of title 10, United 
States Code.
                                 <all>
