
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 578 Introduced in House (IH)]

113th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                H. R. 578

  To allow reciprocity for the carrying of certain concealed firearms.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                            February 6, 2013

 Mr. Stutzman introduced the following bill; which was referred to the 
                       Committee on the Judiciary

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
  To allow reciprocity for the carrying of certain concealed firearms.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Respecting States' Rights and 
Concealed Carry Reciprocity Act of 2013''.

SEC. 2. RECIPROCITY FOR THE CARRYING OF CERTAIN CONCEALED FIREARMS.

    (a) In General.--Chapter 44 of title 18, United States Code, is 
amended by inserting after section 926C the following:
``Sec. 926D. Reciprocity for the carrying of certain concealed firearms
    ``(a) In General.--Notwithstanding any provision of the law of any 
State or political subdivision thereof to the contrary--
            ``(1) an individual who is not prohibited by Federal law 
        from possessing, transporting, shipping, or receiving a 
        firearm, and who is carrying a government-issued photographic 
        identification document and a valid license or permit which is 
        issued pursuant to the law of a State and which permits the 
        individual to carry a concealed firearm, may possess or carry a 
        concealed handgun (other than a machinegun or destructive 
        device) that has been shipped or transported in interstate or 
        foreign commerce in any State other than the State of residence 
        of the individual that--
                    ``(A) has a statute that allows residents of the 
                State to obtain licenses or permits to carry concealed 
                firearms; or
                    ``(B) does not prohibit the carrying of concealed 
                firearms by residents of the State for lawful purposes; 
                and
            ``(2) an individual who is not prohibited by Federal law 
        from possessing, transporting, shipping, or receiving a 
        firearm, and who is carrying a government-issued photographic 
        identification document and is entitled and not prohibited from 
        carrying a concealed firearm in the State in which the 
        individual resides otherwise than as described in paragraph 
        (1), may possess or carry a concealed handgun (other than a 
        machinegun or destructive device) that has been shipped or 
        transported in interstate or foreign commerce in any State 
        other than the State of residence of the individual that--
                    ``(A) has a statute that allows residents of the 
                State to obtain licenses or permits to carry concealed 
                firearms; or
                    ``(B) does not prohibit the carrying of concealed 
                firearms by residents of the State for lawful purposes.
    ``(b) Conditions and Limitations.--The possession or carrying of a 
concealed handgun in a State under this section shall be subject to the 
same conditions and limitations, except as to eligibility to possess or 
carry, imposed by or under Federal or State law or the law of a 
political subdivision of a State, that apply to the possession or 
carrying of a concealed handgun by residents of the State or political 
subdivision who are licensed by the State or political subdivision to 
do so, or not prohibited by the State from doing so.
    ``(c) Unrestricted License or Permit.--In a State that allows the 
issuing authority for licenses or permits to carry concealed firearms 
to impose restrictions on the carrying of firearms by individual 
holders of such licenses or permits, an individual carrying a concealed 
handgun under this section shall be permitted to carry a concealed 
handgun according to the same terms authorized by an unrestricted 
license of or permit issued to a resident of the State.
    ``(d) Rule of Construction.--Nothing in this section shall be 
construed to preempt any provision of State law with respect to the 
issuance of licenses or permits to carry concealed firearms.''.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections for chapter 44 of 
title 18, United States Code, is amended by inserting after the item 
relating to section 926C the following:

``926D. Reciprocity for the carrying of certain concealed firearms.''.
    (c) Severability.--Notwithstanding any other provision of this Act, 
if any provision of this section, or any amendment made by this 
section, or the application of such provision or amendment to any 
person or circumstance is held to be unconstitutional, this section and 
amendments made by this section and the application of such provision 
or amendment to other persons or circumstances shall not be affected 
thereby.
    (d) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this section shall take 
effect 90 days after the date of enactment of this Act.
                                 <all>
