
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[S. Res. 244 Introduced in Senate (IS)]

113th CONGRESS
  1st Session
S. RES. 244

  Authorizing expenditures by the Committee on Commerce, Science, and 
                            Transportation.


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                           September 19, 2013

     Mr. Rockefeller, from the Committee on Commerce, Science, and 
 Transportation, reported the following original resolution; which was 
         referred to the Committee on Rules and Administration

_______________________________________________________________________

                               RESOLUTION


 
  Authorizing expenditures by the Committee on Commerce, Science, and 
                            Transportation.

    Resolved, That, in carrying out its powers, duties, and functions 
under the Standing Rules of the Senate, in accordance with its 
jurisdiction under rule XXV of such rules, including holding hearings, 
reporting such hearings, and making investigations as authorized by 
paragraphs 1 and 8 of rule XXVI of the Standing Rules of the Senate, 
the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation is authorized 
from October 1, 2013, through September 30, 2014, and October 1, 2014, 
through February 28, 2015, in its discretion (1) to make expenditures 
from the contingent fund of the Senate, (2) to employ personnel, and 
(3) with the prior consent of the Government department or agency 
concerned and the Committee on Rules and Administration, to use on a 
reimbursable or non-reimbursable basis the services of personnel of any 
such department or agency.
    Sec. 2. (a) The expenses of the Committee for the period from 
October 1, 2013, through September 30, 2014, under this resolution 
shall not exceed $6,583,591, of which amount (1) not to exceed $50,000 
may be expended for the procurement of the services of individual 
consultants, or organizations thereof (as authorized by section 202(i) 
of the Legislative Reorganization Act of 1946 (2 U.S.C. 72a(i))), and 
(2) not to exceed $50,000 may be expended for the training of the 
professional staff of the Committee (under procedures specified by 
section 202(j) of the Legislative Reorganization Act of 1946 (2 U.S.C. 
72a(j))).
    (b) For the period from October 1, 2014, through February 28, 2015, 
expenses of the Committee under this resolution shall not exceed 
$2,743,163, of which amount (1) not to exceed $50,000 may be expended 
for the procurement of the services of individual consultants, or 
organizations thereof (as authorized by section 202(i) of the 
Legislative Reorganization Act of 1946 (2 U.S.C. 72a(i))), and (2) not 
to exceed $50,000 may be expended for the training of the professional 
staff of the Committee (under procedures specified by section 202(j) of 
the Legislative Reorganization Act of 1946 (2 U.S.C. 72a(j))).
    Sec. 3.  The Committee shall report its findings, together with 
such recommendations for legislation as it deems advisable, to the 
Senate at the earliest practicable date, but not later than February 
28, 2015.
    Sec. 4.  Expenses of the Committee under this resolution shall be 
paid from the contingent fund of the Senate upon vouchers approved by 
the chairman of the Committee, except that vouchers shall not be 
required (1) for the disbursement of salaries of employees paid at an 
annual rate, (2) for the payment of telecommunications provided by the 
Office of the Sergeant at Arms and Doorkeeper, United States Senate, 
(3) for the payment of stationery supplies purchased through the Keeper 
of the Stationery, United States Senate, (4) for payments to the 
Postmaster, United States Senate, (5) for the payment of metered 
charges on copying equipment provided by the Office of the Sergeant at 
Arms and Doorkeeper, United States Senate, (6) for the payment of 
Senate Recording and Photographic Services, or (7) for the payment of 
franked and mass mail costs by the Office of the Sergeant at Arms and 
Doorkeeper, United States Senate.
    Sec. 5.  There are authorized such sums as may be necessary for 
agency contributions related to the compensation of employees of the 
Committee from October 1, 2013, through September 30, 2014, and October 
1, 2014, through February 28, 2015, to be paid from the Appropriations 
account for ``Expenses of Inquiries and Investigations'' of the Senate.
                                 <all>
