
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[S. 2847 Introduced in Senate (IS)]

113th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                S. 2847

 To provide for certain land to be taken into trust for the benefit of 
      the Morongo Band of Mission Indians, and for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

           September 17 (legislative day, September 16), 2014

  Mrs. Boxer introduced the following bill; which was read twice and 
              referred to the Committee on Indian Affairs

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
 To provide for certain land to be taken into trust for the benefit of 
      the Morongo Band of Mission Indians, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Economic Development Through Tribal 
Land Exchange Act''.

SEC. 2. DEFINITIONS.

    In this Act:
            (1) City.--The term ``City'' means the City of Banning, 
        located in Riverside County, California, and adjacent to the 
        Morongo Indian Reservation.
            (2) Fields.--The term ``Fields'' means Lloyd L. Fields, the 
        owner of record of Parcel A.
            (3) Map.--The term ``map'' means the map entitled ``Morongo 
        Indian Reservation, County of Riverside, State of California 
        Land Exchange Map'', dated May 22, 2014, and on file in the 
        Bureau of Land Management State Office in Sacramento, 
        California.
            (4) Parcel a.--The term ``Parcel A'' means the 
        approximately 41.15 acres designated on the map as ``Fields 
        lands''.
            (5) Parcel b.--The term ``Parcel B'' means the 
        approximately 41.15 acres designated on the map as ``Morongo 
        lands''.
            (6) Parcel c.--The term ``Parcel C'' means the 
        approximately 1.21 acres designated on the map as ``Banning 
        land''.
            (7) Parcel d.--The term ``Parcel D'' means the 
        approximately 1.76 acres designated on the map as ``Easement to 
        Banning''.
            (8) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary 
        of the Interior.
            (9) Tribe.--The term ``Tribe'' means the Morongo Band of 
        Mission Indians.

SEC. 3. TRANSFER OF LAND; TRUST LAND; EASEMENT.

    (a) Transfer of Parcel A and Parcel B and Easement Over Parcel D.--
Subject to any valid existing rights of any third parties and to legal 
review and approval of the form and content of any and all instruments 
of conveyance and policies of title insurance, on receipt by the 
Secretary of confirmation that Fields has duly executed and deposited 
with a mutually acceptable and jointly instructed escrow holder in 
California a deed conveying clear and unencumbered title to Parcel A to 
the United States in trust for the exclusive use and benefit of the 
Tribe, and on receipt by Fields of confirmation that the Secretary has 
duly executed and deposited into escrow with that mutually acceptable 
and jointly instructed escrow holder a patent conveying clear and 
unencumbered title in fee simple to Parcel B to Fields and has duly 
executed and deposited into escrow with that mutually acceptable and 
jointly instructed escrow holder an easement to the City for a public 
right-of-way over Parcel D, the Secretary shall instruct the escrow 
holder to simultaneously cause--
            (1) the patent to Parcel B to be recorded and issued to 
        Fields;
            (2) the easement over Parcel D to be recorded and issued to 
        the City; and
            (3) the deed to Parcel A to be delivered to the Secretary, 
        who shall immediately cause the deed to Parcel A to be recorded 
        and held in trust for the Tribe.
    (b) Transfer of Parcel C.--After completion of the transfers under 
subsection (a) and as soon as practicable after receipt by the 
Secretary of confirmation that the City has vacated the interest of the 
City in Parcel C in accordance with all applicable State and local 
laws, the Secretary shall cause Parcel C to be held in trust for the 
Tribe subject to--
            (1) any valid existing rights of any third parties; and
            (2) legal review and approval of the form and content of 
        any and all instruments of conveyance.
                                 <all>
