
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[S. 2397 Introduced in Senate (IS)]

113th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                S. 2397

   To increase the rates of pay under the General Schedule and other 
statutory pay systems and for prevailing rate employees by 3.3 percent, 
                        and for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                              May 22, 2014

Mr. Schatz (for himself and Mr. Cardin) introduced the following bill; 
which was read twice and referred to the Committee on Homeland Security 
                        and Governmental Affairs

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
   To increase the rates of pay under the General Schedule and other 
statutory pay systems and for prevailing rate employees by 3.3 percent, 
                        and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Federal Adjustment of Income Rates 
Act of 2014'' or the ``FAIR Act''.

SEC. 2. ADJUSTMENT TO RATES OF PAY.

    (a) Statutory Pay Systems.--The adjustment in rates of basic pay 
for employees under the statutory pay systems (as defined in section 
5302 of title 5, United States Code) that takes effect in fiscal year 
2015 under section 5303 of title 5, United States Code, shall be an 
increase of 3.3 percent, and such adjustments shall be effective as of 
the first day of the first applicable pay period beginning on or after 
January 1, 2015.
    (b) Prevailing Rate Employees.--The adjustment in rates of basic 
pay for the statutory pay systems that take place in fiscal year 2015 
under sections 5344 and 5348 of title 5, United States Code, shall be 
equal to the percentage adjustment received by employees in the same 
location whose rates of basic pay are adjusted pursuant to the 
statutory pay systems under subsection (a) of this section and 5304 of 
title 5, United States Code. Prevailing rate employees at locations 
where there are no employees whose pay is increased pursuant to 
sections 5303 and 5304 of title 5 and prevailing rate employees 
described in section 5343(a)(5) of title 5, United States Code, shall 
be considered to be located in the pay locality designated as ``Rest of 
US'' pursuant to section 5304 of title 5, United States Code, for 
purposes of this subsection.
                                 <all>
