
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 4152 Introduced in House (IH)]

113th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                H. R. 4152

        To provide for the costs of loan guarantees for Ukraine.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                             March 5, 2014

  Mr. Rogers of Kentucky (for himself and Mrs. Lowey) introduced the 
following bill; which was referred to the Committee on Appropriations, 
and in addition to the Committee on Foreign Affairs, for a period to be 
subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration 
  of such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the committee 
                               concerned

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
        To provide for the costs of loan guarantees for Ukraine.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. PROVISION OF COSTS OF LOAN GUARANTEES FOR UKRAINE.

    From amounts appropriated or otherwise made available under 
``Economic Support Fund'' in division K of the Consolidated 
Appropriations Act, 2014 (Public Law 113-76), and prior Acts making 
appropriations for the Department of State, foreign operations, and 
related programs, funding from unobligated balances shall be made 
available for the costs, as defined in section 502 of the Congressional 
Budget Act of 1974, of loan guarantees for Ukraine, which are 
authorized to be provided in an appropriations Act, in accordance with 
section 504 of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974: Provided, That 
amounts made available for the costs of such guarantees shall not be 
considered ``assistance'' for the purpose of provisions of law limiting 
assistance to such country: Provided further, That none of the funds 
may be made available from amounts designated pursuant to section 
251(b)(2)(A) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act 
of 1985.
                                 <all>
