
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H. Res. 312 Engrossed in House (EH)]

H. Res. 312

                In the House of Representatives, U. S.,

                                                         July 23, 2013.
    Resolved, That at any time after the adoption of this resolution the Speaker 
may, pursuant to clause 2(b) of rule XVIII, declare the House resolved into the 
Committee of the Whole House on the state of the Union for consideration of the 
bill (H.R. 2397) making appropriations for the Department of Defense for the 
fiscal year ending September 30, 2014, and for other purposes. The first reading 
of the bill shall be dispensed with. All points of order against consideration 
of the bill are waived. General debate shall be confined to the bill and shall 
not exceed one hour equally divided and controlled by the chair and ranking 
minority member of the Committee on Appropriations. After general debate the 
bill shall be considered for amendment under the five-minute rule. The bill 
shall be considered as read through page 157, line 2. Points of order against 
provisions in the bill for failure to comply with clause 2 of rule XXI are 
waived.
     (b) No amendment shall be in order except those printed in the report of 
the Committee on Rules accompanying this resolution, the amendment described in 
section 2 of this resolution, and amendments en bloc described in section 3 of 
this resolution. All points of order against amendments printed in the report of 
the Committee on Rules and against amendments en bloc described in section 3 of 
this resolution are waived.
    (c) Each amendment printed in the report of the Committee on Rules shall be 
considered only in the order printed in the report, may be offered only by a 
Member designated in the report, shall be considered as read, shall be debatable 
for the time specified in the report equally divided and controlled by the 
proponent and an opponent, may be withdrawn by the proponent at any time before 
action thereon, shall not be subject to amendment, and shall not be subject to a 
demand for division of the question in the House or in the Committee of the 
Whole.
    Sec. 2.  After disposition of amendments printed in the report of the 
Committee on Rules accompanying this resolution and amendments en bloc described 
in section 3 of this resolution, it shall be in order for the chair of the 
Committee on Appropriations or his designee to offer an amendment reducing 
funding levels in the bill.
    Sec. 3.  It shall be in order at any time for the chair of the Committee on 
Appropriations or his designee to offer amendments en bloc consisting of 
amendments printed in the report of the Committee on Rules accompanying this 
resolution not earlier disposed of. Amendments en bloc offered pursuant to this 
section shall be considered as read, shall be debatable for 20 minutes equally 
divided and controlled by the chair and ranking minority member of the Committee 
on Appropriations or their respective designees, shall not be subject to 
amendment, and shall not be subject to a demand for division of the question in 
the House or in the Committee of the Whole. The original proponent of an 
amendment included in such amendments en bloc may insert a statement in the 
Congressional Record immediately before the disposition of the amendments en 
bloc.
    Sec. 4.  After the conclusion of consideration of the bill for amendment, 
there shall be in order a final period of general debate, which shall not exceed 
10 minutes equally divided and controlled by the chair and ranking minority 
member of the Committee on Appropriations.
    Sec. 5.  When the committee rises and reports the bill back to the House 
with a recommendation that the bill do pass, the previous question shall be 
considered as ordered on the bill and amendments thereto to final passage 
without intervening motion except one motion to recommit with or without 
instructions.
    Sec. 6.  At any time after the adoption of this resolution the Speaker may, 
pursuant to clause 2(b) of rule XVIII, declare the House resolved into the 
Committee of the Whole House on the state of the Union for consideration of the 
bill (H.R. 2610) making appropriations for the Departments of Transportation, 
and Housing and Urban Development, and related agencies for the fiscal year 
ending September 30, 2014, and for other purposes. The first reading of the bill 
shall be dispensed with. All points of order against consideration of the bill 
are waived. General debate shall be confined to the bill and shall not exceed 
one hour equally divided and controlled by the chair and ranking minority member 
of the Committee on Appropriations. After general debate the bill shall be 
considered for amendment under the five-minute rule. Points of order against 
provisions in the bill for failure to comply with clause 2 of rule XXI are 
waived. During consideration of the bill for amendment, the chair of the 
Committee of the Whole may accord priority in recognition on the basis of 
whether the Member offering an amendment has caused it to be printed in the 
portion of the Congressional Record designated for that purpose in clause 8 of 
rule XVIII. Amendments so printed shall be considered as read. When the 
committee rises and reports the bill back to the House with a recommendation 
that the bill do pass, the previous question shall be considered as ordered on 
the bill and amendments thereto to final passage without intervening motion 
except one motion to recommit with or without instructions.
            Attest:

                                                                          Clerk.
