
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 2428 Introduced in House (IH)]

113th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                H. R. 2428

     To direct the Secretary of Transportation to assist States to 
    rehabilitate or replace certain bridges, and for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                             June 19, 2013

  Mr. Rahall (for himself, Mr. Larsen of Washington, Mr. DeFazio, Ms. 
Norton, Mr. Nadler, Ms. Brown of Florida, Ms. Eddie Bernice Johnson of 
Texas, Mr. Cummings, Mr. Capuano, Mr. Bishop of New York, Mr. Michaud, 
  Mrs. Napolitano, Mr. Lipinski, Mr. Walz, Mr. Cohen, Mr. Sires, Ms. 
  Edwards, Mr. Garamendi, Mr. Carson of Indiana, Ms. Hahn, Mr. Nolan, 
 Mrs. Kirkpatrick, Ms. Esty, Ms. Frankel of Florida, and Mrs. Bustos) 
 introduced the following bill; which was referred to the Committee on 
                   Transportation and Infrastructure

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
     To direct the Secretary of Transportation to assist States to 
    rehabilitate or replace certain bridges, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Strengthen And Fortify Existing 
Bridges Act of 2013'' or the ``SAFE Bridges Act of 2013''.

SEC. 2. ASSISTANCE TO STATES TO REHABILITATE OR REPLACE CERTAIN 
              BRIDGES.

    (a) Establishment.--Not later than 30 days after the date of 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Transportation shall establish 
a program to assist States to rehabilitate or replace eligible bridges.
    (b) Apportionment of Funds.--
            (1) In general.--Amounts made available to carry out the 
        program established under subsection (a) for a fiscal year 
        shall be apportioned to each State according to the ratio 
        that--
                    (A) the total cost to rehabilitate or replace 
                structurally deficient and functionally obsolete 
                bridges in that State; bears to
                    (B) the total cost to rehabilitate or replace 
                structurally deficient and functionally obsolete 
                bridges in all States.
            (2) Calculation of total cost.--
                    (A) Categories of bridges.--The Secretary shall 
                place each structurally deficient or functionally 
                obsolete bridge into one of the following categories:
                            (i) Federal-aid highway bridges eligible 
                        for rehabilitation.
                            (ii) Federal-aid highway bridges eligible 
                        for replacement.
                            (iii) Bridges not on Federal-aid highways 
                        eligible for rehabilitation.
                            (iv) Bridges not on Federal-aid highways 
                        eligible for replacement.
                    (B) Calculation.--For purposes of the calculation 
                required under paragraph (1), the Secretary shall 
                multiply the deck area of structurally deficient and 
                functionally obsolete bridges in each category 
                described in subparagraph (A) by the respective unit 
                price on a State-by-State basis, as determined by the 
                Secretary, to determine the total cost to rehabilitate 
                or replace bridges in each State.
                    (C) Data used in making determinations.--The 
                Secretary shall make determinations under this 
                subsection based on the latest available data, which 
                shall be updated not less than annually.
                    (D) Use of existing inventories.--To the extent 
                practicable, the Secretary shall make determinations 
                under this subsection using inventories prepared under 
                section 144 of title 23, United States Code.
    (c) Use of Funds.--Funds apportioned to a State under the program 
established under subsection (a) shall--
            (1) be used by that State for the rehabilitation and 
        replacement of eligible bridges;
            (2) except as otherwise specified in this section, be 
        administered as if apportioned under chapter 1 of title 23, 
        United States Code, except that such funds shall not be 
        transferable;
            (3) be subject to the requirements described in section 
        1101(b) of MAP-21 in the same manner as amounts made available 
        for programs under divisions A and B of that Act; and
            (4) not be subject to any limitation on obligations for 
        Federal-aid highways or highway safety construction programs 
        set forth in any Act.
    (d) Condition at Project Completion.--A bridge that is 
rehabilitated or replaced under the program established under 
subsection (a) may not be structurally deficient, functionally 
obsolete, or fracture critical upon the completion of such 
rehabilitation or replacement.
    (e) Federal Share.--The Federal share of the cost of a project 
carried out with funds apportioned to a State under the program 
established under subsection (a) shall be 100 percent.
    (f) Reapportionment of Unobligated Funds.--Any funds apportioned to 
a State under the program established under subsection (a) and not 
obligated by that State at the end of the third fiscal year beginning 
after the fiscal year during which the funds were apportioned shall be 
withdrawn from that State and reapportioned by the Secretary to States 
that have not had funds withdrawn under this subsection in accordance 
with the formula specified in subsection (b).
    (g) Nonsubstitution.--In carrying out the program established under 
subsection (a), the Secretary shall ensure that funding made available 
to a State under the program supplements, and does not supplant--
            (1) other Federal funding made available for the 
        rehabilitation or replacement of eligible bridges; and
            (2) the planned obligations of that State with respect to 
        eligible bridges.
    (h) Report.--Not later than 1 year after the date of enactment of 
this Act, and each year thereafter if States obligated funds 
apportioned under the program established under subsection (a) during 
that year, the Secretary shall submit to the Committee on 
Transportation and Infrastructure of the House of Representatives and 
the Committee on Environment and Public Works of the Senate a report 
that describes the amounts obligated by each State for projects under 
such program.
    (i) Definitions.--In this section, the following definitions apply:
            (1) Bridge.--The term ``bridge'' means a bridge on a public 
        road, without regard to whether the bridge is on a Federal-aid 
        highway.
            (2) Eligible bridge.--The term ``eligible bridge'' means a 
        bridge that is structurally deficient, functionally obsolete, 
        or fracture critical.
            (3) Federal-aid highway.--The term ``Federal-aid highway'' 
        has the meaning given that term in section 101(a) of title 23, 
        United States Code.
            (4) Fracture critical.--The term ``fracture critical'' 
        means, with respect to a bridge, a bridge with a steel member 
        in tension, or with a tension element, the failure of which 
        would likely cause a portion of the bridge or the entire bridge 
        to collapse.
            (5) Functionally obsolete.--The term ``functionally 
        obsolete'' means, with respect to a bridge, a bridge that, as 
        determined by the Secretary, no longer meets current design 
        standards for the traffic demands on the bridge.
            (6) Public road.--The term ``public road'' has the meaning 
        given that term in section 101(a) of title 23, United States 
        Code.
            (7) Rehabilitation.--The term ``rehabilitation'' means, 
        with respect to a bridge, the carrying out of major work 
        necessary, as determined by the Secretary--
                    (A) to restore the structural integrity of the 
                bridge; or
                    (B) to correct a major safety defect of the bridge.
            (8) Replacement.--The term ``replacement'' means, with 
        respect to a bridge, the construction of a new facility that, 
        as determined by the Secretary, is in the same general traffic 
        corridor as the replaced bridge.
            (9) State.--The term ``State'' means any of the 50 States 
        and the District of Columbia.
            (10) Structurally deficient.--The term ``structurally 
        deficient'' means, with respect to a bridge, a bridge that, as 
        determined by the Secretary--
                    (A) has significant load-carrying elements that are 
                in poor or worse condition due to deterioration, 
                damage, or both;
                    (B) has a load capacity that is significantly below 
                current truckloads and that requires replacement; or
                    (C) has a waterway opening causing frequent 
                flooding of the bridge deck and approaches resulting in 
                significant traffic interruptions.
    (j) Authorization of Appropriations.--There is authorized to be 
appropriated to the Secretary to carry out this section $2,750,000,000 
for each of fiscal years 2013 and 2014. Such sums shall remain 
available until expended.
                                 <all>
