
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 978 Introduced in House (IH)]

113th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                H. R. 978

   To deauthorize the Military Selective Service Act, including the 
 registration requirement and the activities of civilian local boards, 
  civilian appeal boards, and similar local agencies of the Selective 
  Service System, except during a national emergency declared by the 
                   President, and for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                             March 6, 2013

 Mr. Coffman (for himself, Mr. DeFazio, and Mrs. Roby) introduced the 
 following bill; which was referred to the Committee on Armed Services

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
   To deauthorize the Military Selective Service Act, including the 
 registration requirement and the activities of civilian local boards, 
  civilian appeal boards, and similar local agencies of the Selective 
  Service System, except during a national emergency declared by the 
                   President, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``National Emergency Selective Service 
Act''.

SEC. 2. FINDINGS.

    Congress makes the following findings:
            (1) Congress has not given serious consideration to 
        conscription since establishing the current Selective Service 
        System in 1979.
            (2) The Department of Defense has neither plans nor the 
        capabilities to deal with conscription, were conscription under 
        the Military Selective Service Act ever reimposed.
            (3) The amendments made by this section would allow 
        approximately 175 Reserve officers to return to more important 
        duties.
            (4) The estimated savings of $24.2 million annually from 
        the amendments made by this Act would be better used to reduce 
        the Federal budget deficit.

SEC. 3. DEAUTHORIZATION OF MILITARY SELECTIVE SERVICE ACT EXCEPT DURING 
              NATIONAL EMERGENCIES.

    (a) Restriction of Registration Requirement to National 
Emergency.--Section 3 of the Military Selective Service Act (50 U.S.C. 
App. 453) is amended--
            (1) in subsection (a), by striking ``Except as otherwise 
        provided in this title,'' and inserting ``During any period in 
        which a declaration of national emergency is in effect under 
        subsection (c),''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following new subsections:
    ``(c) Declaration of National Emergency.--The President shall have 
the authority to declare, by Executive order, a period of national 
emergency during which the registration requirements of subsection (a) 
shall apply. The President shall provide for the prompt termination of 
the declaration of national emergency upon the termination of the 
national emergency.
    ``(d) Deauthorization of Registration Requirement.--Unless a 
declaration of national emergency is in effect pursuant to subsection 
(c), on and after the date of the enactment of the National Emergency 
Selective Service Act, no person shall be registered for possible 
induction for training and service in the Armed Forces, including 
persons who were subject to such registration requirements before that 
date but who had not complied with such registration requirements by 
that date.''.
    (b) Suspension of Local Boards, Appeal Boards, and Other Selective 
Service System Agencies; Safeguarding Data.--Section 10 of the Military 
Selective Service Act (50 U.S.C. App. 460) is amended--
            (1) in subsection (c), by adding at the end the following 
        new sentence: ``Whenever operations of the Selective Service 
        System are suspended under subsection (i), the Secretary of 
        Defense shall assume responsibility for security of Selective 
        Service System data bases.''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following new subsection:
    ``(i) Unless a declaration of national emergency is in effect 
pursuant to section 3(c), the President may not appoint a person as a 
member of a civilian local board, civilian appeal board, or similar 
local agency of the Selective Service System, and any such board 
established under subsection (b)(3) may not meet.''.
    (c) Suspension of Sanctions for Persons Subject to Registration.--
Section 12 of the Military Selective Service Act (50 U.S.C. App. 462) 
is amended by adding at the end the following new subsection:
    ``(h) In addition to the exception provided by subsection (g), a 
person may not be denied a right, privilege, benefit, or employment 
position under Federal law on the grounds that the person failed to 
present himself for and submit to registration under section 3 unless a 
declaration of national emergency is in effect pursuant to subsection 
(c) of such section.''.
    (d) Restriction on Authorization of Appropriations.--Section 17(b) 
of the Military Selective Service Act (50 U.S.C. App. 467(b)) is 
amended in the first sentence--
            (1) by striking ``There'' and inserting ``If a declaration 
        of national emergency is in effect under section 3(c), there''; 
        and
            (2) by inserting before the period at the end of the 
        sentence the following: ``during such national emergency''.

SEC. 4. EFFECTIVE DATE AND TRANSFER OF UNOBLIGATED FUNDS.

    (a) Effective Date.--This Act, and the amendments made by this Act, 
shall take effect 90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act.
    (b) Transfer of Unobligated Funds.--The Secretary of the Treasury 
shall transfer the unobligated balances available (as of the effective 
date of this Act) to carry out the Military Selective Service Act to 
the general fund of the Treasury to reduce the deficit.
                                 <all>
