
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 1346 Introduced in House (IH)]

113th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                H. R. 1346

    To amend the Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938 to provide for an 
 increase in the Federal minimum wage and to index future increases to 
          such wage to increases in the consumer price index.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                             March 21, 2013

 Mr. Grayson introduced the following bill; which was referred to the 
                Committee on Education and the Workforce

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
    To amend the Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938 to provide for an 
 increase in the Federal minimum wage and to index future increases to 
          such wage to increases in the consumer price index.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Catching Up To 1968 Act of 2013''.

SEC. 2. INCREASES IN THE FEDERAL MINIMUM WAGE.

    (a) Minimum Wage.--Section 6(a)(1) of the Fair Labor Standards Act 
of 1938 (29 U.S.C. 206(a)(1)) is amended--
            (1) in the matter preceding subparagraph (A), by striking 
        ``not less than--'' and inserting ``not less than the greater 
        of--'';
            (2) by striking subparagraphs (A) through (C) and inserting 
        the following:
                    ``(A) $10.50 an hour; and
                    ``(B) beginning 1 year after the wage provided for 
                in subparagraph (A) takes effect and each year 
                thereafter, the wage determined by the Secretary that 
                raises the wage of the preceding year in proportion to 
                the increase in the Consumer Price Index for all urban 
                consumers for the preceding year, and maintains the 
                wage of the previous year should the Consumer Price 
                Index decrease.''.
    (b) Minimum Wage for Tipped Employees.--Section 3(m)(1) of the Fair 
Labor Standards Act of 1938 (29 U.S.C. 203(m)(1)) is amended to read as 
follows:
            ``(1) the cash wage paid such employee shall be 70 percent 
        of the minimum wage in effect under section 6(a)(1); and''.
    (c) Publication of Wages.--Section 6 of the Fair Labor Standards 
Act of 1938 (29 U.S.C. 206) is further amended by adding after 
subsection (b) the following:
    ``(c) Not later than 60 days prior to the effective date of any 
increase in the minimum wage pursuant to subsection (a)(1)(B) or 
increase in the minimum wage for tipped employees in accordance with 
section 3(m)(1), the Secretary shall publish in the Federal Register 
and on the Internet website of the Department of Labor a notice 
announcing the adjusted required wage or wages.''.
    (d) Amended Farmworker Exemption.--Section 13(a)(6) of the Fair 
Labor Standards Act of 1938 (29 U.S.C. 213(a)(6)) is amended to read as 
follows:
            ``(6) any employee employed in agriculture if such employee 
        is a member of the employer's immediate family; or''.
    (e) Elimination of Home Healthcare Worker Exemption.--Section 
13(a)(15) of the Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938 (29 U.S.C. 
213(a)(15)) is amended by striking ``or any employee employed in 
domestic service employment to provide companionship services for 
individuals who (because of age or infirmity) are unable to care for 
themselves (as such terms are defined and delimited by regulations of 
the Secretary)''.
    (f) Effective Date.--The amendments made by subsections (a) and (b) 
shall take effect 60 days after the date of enactment of this Act.
                                 <all>
