
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 2460 Introduced in House (IH)]

113th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                H. R. 2460

To amend the Small Business Act to provide for the establishment of the 
 Ports as Small Business Incubators Program to provide eligible small 
   businesses with access to commercial real property, and for other 
                               purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                             June 20, 2013

   Ms. Hahn introduced the following bill; which was referred to the 
                      Committee on Small Business

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
To amend the Small Business Act to provide for the establishment of the 
 Ports as Small Business Incubators Program to provide eligible small 
   businesses with access to commercial real property, and for other 
                               purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Ports as Small Business Incubators 
Act of 2013''.

SEC. 2. IN GENERAL.

    The Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 631 et seq.) is amended by 
redesignating sections 45, 46, and 47 as sections 46, 47, and 48, 
respectively and inserting after section 44 the following:

``SEC. 45. PORTS AS SMALL BUSINESS INCUBATORS PROGRAM.

    ``(a) Establishment.--Not later than 180 days after the date of 
enactment of the Ports as Small Business Incubators Program Act of 
2013, the Administrator shall establish the Ports as Small Business 
Incubators Program described in this section.
    ``(b) Eligible Participants.--Any port authority that submits an 
application in such form and containing such information as the 
Administrator may require is eligible to be a participant in the Ports 
as Small Business Incubators Program. The Administrator shall, in the 
Administrator's discretion, select participants from among applicants.
    ``(c) Grant Awards.--The Administrator shall award to each 
participant in the Program a grant in an amount not less than $300,000 
and not more than $500,000. The grant shall be for a term of 5 years. A 
participant who has received a grant and who has complied with 
subsection (e) may, after the expiration of the grant term, apply, in 
such form and manner as the Administrator shall require, for an 
additional grant.
    ``(d) Grant Uses.--
            ``(1) In general.--A grant under subsection (c) may only be 
        used for the costs of providing to eligible small business 
        concerns access to commercial real property. In providing 
        access under this subsection, the participant in the Program 
        shall give priority to the following:
                    ``(A) Small business concerns owned and controlled 
                by women.
                    ``(B) Small business concerns owned and controlled 
                by veterans.
                    ``(C) Small business concerns owned and controlled 
                by socially and economically disadvantaged individuals.
                    ``(D) Small business concerns that the participant 
                in the Program determines would create green jobs.
            ``(2) Eligible small business concerns.--The Administrator 
        shall by rule provide for criteria for an eligible small 
        business concern.
            ``(3) Green jobs.--For purposes of this subsection, the 
        term `green jobs' means jobs involving the development of clean 
        energy and improving air and water quality.
    ``(e) Terms and Conditions of Participation.--A participant in the 
Program shall--
            ``(1) use the grant awarded under subsection (c) only for 
        the uses enumerated in subsection (d); and
            ``(2) on January 1 of each year of the grant term, submit 
        to the Administrator a report on how the grant was used and how 
        many eligible small business concerns were provided with access 
        to commercial real property.''.
                                 <all>
