
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 2608 Introduced in House (IH)]

113th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                H. R. 2608

                For the relief of Flavia Maboloc Cahoon.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                             June 28, 2013

   Mrs. Davis of California introduced the following bill; which was 
               referred to the Committee on the Judiciary

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
                For the relief of Flavia Maboloc Cahoon.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. PERMANENT RESIDENT STATUS FOR FLAVIA MABOLOC CAHOON.

    (a) In General.--Notwithstanding subsections (a) and (b) of section 
201, and section 245(d), of the Immigration and Nationality Act, Flavia 
Maboloc Cahoon shall be eligible for issuance of an immigrant visa or 
for adjustment of status to that of an alien lawfully admitted for 
permanent residence upon filing an application for issuance of an 
immigrant visa under section 204 of such Act or for adjustment of 
status to lawful permanent resident.
    (b) Adjustment of Status.--Notwithstanding subsection (d) of 
section 245 of the Immigration and Nationality Act, if Flavia Maboloc 
Cahoon enters the United States before the filing deadline specified in 
subsection (c) of this Act, she shall be considered to have entered and 
remained lawfully and shall, if otherwise eligible, be eligible for 
adjustment of status under such section 245 as of the date of the 
enactment of this Act.
    (c) Deadline for Application and Payment of Fees.--Subsections (a) 
and (b) shall apply only if the application for issuance of an 
immigrant visa or the application for adjustment of status is filed 
with appropriate fees within 2 years after the date of the enactment of 
this Act.
    (d) Reduction of Immigrant Visa Number.--Upon the granting of an 
immigrant visa or permanent residence to Flavia Maboloc Cahoon, the 
Secretary of State shall instruct the proper officer to reduce by 1, 
during the current or next following fiscal year, the total number of 
immigrant visas that are made available to natives of the country of 
the alien's birth under section 203(a) of the Immigration and 
Nationality Act or, if applicable, the total number of immigrant visas 
that are made available to natives of the country of the alien's birth 
under section 202(e) of such Act.
    (e) Denial of Preferential Immigration Treatment for Certain 
Relatives.--The natural parents, brothers, and sisters of Flavia 
Maboloc Cahoon shall not, by virtue of such relationship, be accorded 
any right, privilege, or status under the Immigration and Nationality 
Act.
                                 <all>
