
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 5314 Introduced in House (IH)]

113th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                H. R. 5314

     To amend title 31, United States Code, to enhance the Federal 
  Government's planning and preparation for extreme weather, and the 
  Federal Government's dissemination of best practices to respond to 
  extreme weather, thereby increasing resiliency, improving regional 
    coordination, and mitigating the financial risk to the Federal 
                 Government from such extreme weather.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                             July 31, 2014

Mr. Cartwright (for himself, Mr. Blumenauer, Mr. Capuano, Mr. Cole, Mr. 
 Dent, Mr. Doggett, Mr. Grimm, Mr. Hastings of Florida, Mr. Holt, Mr. 
 Honda, Mr. Huffman, Mr. Loebsack, Ms. Pingree of Maine, Mr. Young of 
  Alaska, Ms. Norton, Mr. Peters of California, and Mr. Fitzpatrick) 
 introduced the following bill; which was referred to the Committee on 
Transportation and Infrastructure, and in addition to the Committee on 
   Oversight and Government Reform, for a period to be subsequently 
   determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of such 
 provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
     To amend title 31, United States Code, to enhance the Federal 
  Government's planning and preparation for extreme weather, and the 
  Federal Government's dissemination of best practices to respond to 
  extreme weather, thereby increasing resiliency, improving regional 
    coordination, and mitigating the financial risk to the Federal 
                 Government from such extreme weather.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Preparedness and Risk Management for 
Extreme Weather Patterns Assuring Resilience Act of 2014'' or the 
``PREPARE Act of 2014''.

SEC. 2. FINDINGS.

    The Congress finds the following:
            (1) For the first time in history, the Government 
        Accountability Office included the need to address extreme 
        weather in its 2013 High Risk List by declaring that this 
        complex, cross-cutting issue ``presents a significant financial 
        risk to the federal government''.
            (2) The United States has sustained 151 weather-related 
        disasters since 1980 where overall costs reached or exceeded $1 
        billion, with a total cost exceeding $1 trillion.
            (3) In 2012, the Federal Government spent nearly $100 
        billion because of droughts, storms, floods, and forest fires, 
        and the costs of extreme weather in the United States totaled 
        almost 1 percent of the Nation's gross domestic product.
            (4) Every dollar spent on hazard mitigation brings a $4 
        return on investment.
            (5) The Federal Government has a number of non-permanent 
        efforts underway to address extreme weather, including those 
        outlined in Executive Order 13514, in Executive Order 13653, in 
        Homeland Security Presidential Directive 20, in Presidential 
        Policy Directive 8, and in individual Agency Adaptation Plans.
            (6) The Hurricane Sandy Rebuilding Task Force 
        recommendations included taking a resiliency approach to 
        planning, design, and rebuilding in order to mitigate impacts 
        of future extreme weather-related events.
            (7) In order to help communities plan for future extreme 
        weather-related events, the National League of Cities urges the 
        Federal Government to provide financial and technical 
        assistance to help local governments assess vulnerabilities and 
        mitigate such future events and to share best practices and 
        resiliency strategies.

SEC. 3. AMENDMENTS RELATING TO EXTREME WEATHER RESILIENCY, 
              PREPAREDNESS, AND RISK MANAGEMENT.

    (a) In General.--Subtitle VI of title 31, United States Code, is 
amended by inserting after chapter 97 the following new chapter:

   ``CHAPTER 99--EXTREME WEATHER RESILIENCY, PREPAREDNESS, AND RISK 
                               MANAGEMENT

   ``subchapter i--strategic planning for extreme weather resiliency, 
                   preparedness, and risk management

``Sec.
``9901. Interagency Council on Extreme Weather Resiliency, 
                            Preparedness, and Risk Management.
``9902. Agency planning for extreme weather-related risks.
 ``subchapter ii--assistance in identifying the best available science 
and extreme weather resiliency, preparedness, and risk management best 
                               practices

``9911. USGCRP Web site.
``9912. Adequate funding.
                 ``subchapter iii--regional coordination

``9921. Inventory.
``9922. Meetings.
``9923. Progress reports.
                      ``subchapter iv--definitions

``9931. Definitions.

  ``SUBCHAPTER I--STRATEGIC PLANNING FOR EXTREME WEATHER RESILIENCY, 
                   PREPAREDNESS, AND RISK MANAGEMENT

``Sec. 9901. Interagency Council on Extreme Weather Resiliency, 
              Preparedness, and Risk Management
    ``(a) Establishment.--The President shall establish a council to be 
known as the `Interagency Council on Extreme Weather Resiliency, 
Preparedness, and Risk Management'.
    ``(b) Membership.--The Interagency Council shall be composed of--
            ``(1) the Chairman of the Council on Environmental Quality;
            ``(2) the Director of the Office of Science and Technology 
        Policy;
            ``(3) the Assistant to the President for Homeland Security 
        and Counterterrorism;
            ``(4) the employee of the Office of Management and Budget 
        in the position established under subsection (c)(2), or a 
        designee of such employee; and
            ``(5) other members as appointed by the President who are 
        agency representatives at the Assistant Secretary (or 
        equivalent) level or above, including--
                    ``(A) a representative from--
                            ``(i) the Department of Transportation;
                            ``(ii) the Environmental Protection Agency;
                            ``(iii) the Department of Energy; and
                            ``(iv) the Department of Homeland Security; 
                        and
                    ``(B) representatives who have policy expertise and 
                policy responsibilities in the areas of--
                            ``(i) economic policy;
                            ``(ii) foreign affairs;
                            ``(iii) defense and intelligence;
                            ``(iv) homeland security;
                            ``(v) energy;
                            ``(vi) environmental protection;
                            ``(vii) natural resources;
                            ``(viii) coasts, oceans, rivers, and 
                        floodplains;
                            ``(ix) agriculture;
                            ``(x) health;
                            ``(xi) transportation, infrastructure, or 
                        housing;
                            ``(xii) education;
                            ``(xiii) extreme weather data analysis or 
                        meteorological science;
                            ``(xiv) social science;
                            ``(xv) strategic planning; and
                            ``(xvi) other areas the President 
                        determines appropriate.
    ``(c) Co-Chairpersons.--
            ``(1) In general.--The Interagency Council shall be co-
        chaired by the employee of the Office of Management and Budget 
        in the position established under paragraph (2) (or a designee 
        of such employee) and any other member of the Interagency 
        Council that the President may appoint as co-chairperson.
            ``(2) Position at the office of management and budget.--
        There is established within the Office of Management and Budget 
        a position to--
                    ``(A) serve as a co-chairperson of the Interagency 
                Council;
                    ``(B) oversee the Interagency Council's response to 
                the Government Accountability Office's recommendations 
                under subsection (f)(5);
                    ``(C) use the evaluation framework and performance 
                metrics developed pursuant to subsection (f)(6) to 
                evaluate agency progress in meeting the goals and 
                implementing the priorities described in subsection 
                (f)(1)(A); and
                    ``(D) work to ensure that sufficient resources are 
                available for agencies to--
                            ``(i) meet the goals and implement the 
                        priorities described in subsection (f)(1)(A); 
                        and
                            ``(ii) implement the recommendations 
                        developed under subsection (f)(2).
    ``(d) Administration.--The Council on Environmental Quality shall 
provide administrative support and additional resources, as 
appropriate, to the Interagency Council to the extent permitted by law 
and within existing appropriations. The Interagency Council co-
chairpersons shall determine the amount of funding and personnel 
necessary for the Interagency Council to carry out its duties and the 
amount of funding and personnel each agency represented on the 
Interagency Council should contribute in order for the Interagency 
Council to carry out such duties. Agencies shall, upon the request of 
the co-chairpersons of the Interagency Council, make available 
personnel, administrative support services, and information to the 
Interagency Council.
    ``(e) Structure.--
            ``(1) Steering committee.--The co-chairpersons of the 
        Interagency Council shall designate a subset of members of the 
        Interagency Council to serve on a steering committee. Such 
        steering committee shall assist the Interagency Council in 
        determining its priorities and its strategic direction.
            ``(2) Working groups.--The co-chairpersons of the 
        Interagency Council and its steering committee may establish 
        working groups as needed.
    ``(f) Duties.--
            ``(1) Goals and priorities.--
                    ``(A) In general.--The Interagency Council shall 
                establish government-wide goals and priorities for 
                extreme weather resiliency, preparedness, and risk 
                management. In establishing such goals and priorities, 
                the Interagency Council shall consider the National Oil 
                and Hazardous Materials Pollution Contingency Plan, 
                agency continuity of operations plans, the National 
                Preparedness Goal, the National Global Change Research 
                Plan, and all relevant provisions of the Government 
                Accountability Office's High-Risk Series.
                    ``(B) Incorporation into agency activities.--In 
                carrying out subparagraph (A), the Interagency Council 
                shall, in order to ensure that information relating to 
                extreme weather resiliency, preparedness, and risk 
                management is incorporated into everyday agency 
                activities--
                            ``(i) work with agencies to assist such 
                        agencies in considering the goals and 
                        priorities described in subparagraph (A) in 
                        agency strategic, programmatic, and budget 
                        planning; and
                            ``(ii) identify details to be included in 
                        agency extreme weather plans.
            ``(2) Priority interagency federal actions.--The 
        Interagency Council shall develop, recommend, coordinate, and 
        track implementation of priority interagency Federal Government 
        actions related to extreme weather resiliency, preparedness, 
        and risk management.
            ``(3) Support regional, state, local, and tribal actions.--
        The Interagency Council shall support regional, State, local, 
        and tribal action to assess extreme weather-related 
        vulnerabilities and cost effectively increase extreme weather 
        resiliency, preparedness, and risk management of communities, 
        critical economic sectors, natural and built infrastructure, 
        and natural resources, including by--
                    ``(A) conducting inventories under section 9921;
                    ``(B) convening meetings under section 9922; and
                    ``(C) providing guidance to agencies to produce 
                tools and products that enhance extreme weather 
                resiliency planning and actions, including guidance on 
                how to prioritize funding in order to produce such 
                tools and products.
            ``(4) Meteorological and extreme weather science.--The 
        Interagency Council shall facilitate the integration of 
        meteorological and extreme weather science in the policies and 
        planning of agencies and the private sector, including by--
                    ``(A) promoting the development of innovative, 
                actionable, and accessible Federal extreme weather 
                resiliency, preparedness, and risk management-related 
                information, data, tools, and examples of successful 
                actions at appropriate scales for decisionmakers; and
                    ``(B) providing such information, data, tools, and 
                examples to the United States Global Change Research 
                Program to include on the Internet Web site established 
                and maintained pursuant to section 9911.
            ``(5) High-risk report recommendations.--The Interagency 
        Council shall assess the specific recommendations relating to 
        extreme weather in all relevant provisions of the Government 
        Accountability Office's High-Risk Series, identify the 
        feasibility of revising Federal programs to implement such 
        recommendations, and develop a plan to address such 
        recommendations when feasible.
            ``(6) Framework and performance metrics.--The Interagency 
        Council shall use existing and emerging science to develop--
                    ``(A) a framework for evaluating the progress and 
                success of extreme weather resiliency, preparedness, 
                and risk management-related efforts that is 
                complementary to any national indicator system 
                developed as part of the National Climate Assessment; 
                and
                    ``(B) performance metrics that allow tracking of 
                the actions taken and progress made toward meeting the 
                goals and implementing the priorities described in 
                paragraph (1)(A).
            ``(7) Recommendations for the ceq.--The Interagency Council 
        shall provide recommendations to the Council on Environmental 
        Quality on how to--
                    ``(A) update agency extreme weather plans; and
                    ``(B) remove barriers to State and local extreme 
                weather resiliency, preparedness, and risk management, 
                in agency regulations, guidance, and policies.
            ``(8) Public input and comment.--The Interagency Council 
        shall solicit and incorporate public input and comment as 
        appropriate into the decisions of the Interagency Council.
            ``(9) Inventory and meetings.--The Interagency Council 
        shall conduct inventories under section 9921 and convene 
        meetings under section 9922.
            ``(10) Definition of extreme weather.--The Interagency 
        Council shall determine what other weather events (in addition 
        to those described in section 9931(3)) qualify as extreme 
        weather for purposes of this chapter.
            ``(11) Other duties.--The Interagency Council shall carry 
        out any other duties the co-chairpersons of the Interagency 
        Council determine appropriate.
            ``(12) Interagency council web site.--The Interagency 
        Council shall establish and maintain an Internet Web site for 
        tracking implementation of agency extreme weather plans, 
        Government-wide goals and priorities described in paragraph 
        (1)(A), and recommendations relating to extreme weather in all 
        relevant provisions of the Government Accountability Office's 
        High-Risk Series, and shall make such High-Risk Series and the 
        reports submitted under paragraph (13) available on such Web 
        site, as the Council determines appropriate.
            ``(13) Annual report.--Not later than one year after the 
        date of enactment of this chapter, and annually thereafter, the 
        Interagency Council shall submit to Congress, and make 
        available to the United States Global Change Research Program 
        for inclusion in any interim report that supports the National 
        Climate Assessment, and in the National Climate Assessment, a 
        report that--
                    ``(A) describes how the goals and priorities 
                described in paragraph (1)(A) are being met and 
                implemented using--
                            ``(i) the performance metrics developed 
                        under paragraph (6)(B); and
                            ``(ii) information on--
                                    ``(I) agency expenditures, broken 
                                down by program activity level if 
                                practicable, that are directly related 
                                to extreme weather resiliency, 
                                preparedness, and risk management, 
                                including extreme weather resiliency, 
                                preparedness, and risk management of 
                                Federal facilities; and
                                    ``(II) the effectiveness of such 
                                expenditures, along with associated 
                                financial impacts and community, 
                                infrastructure, and environmental 
                                benefits, to the extent such data are 
                                available;
                    ``(B) provides recommendations to enhance the 
                effectiveness of such implementation and sets 
                benchmarks to meet;
                    ``(C) describes the progress of the regional 
                coordination efforts described in subchapter III; and
                    ``(D) includes a summary of public comments 
                solicited under paragraph (8) and how the Interagency 
                Council has responded to such comments.
    ``(g) Consultation.--In carrying out paragraphs (2) through (12) of 
subsection (f), the Interagency Council shall consult with agencies, 
State, local, and tribal governments, academic and research 
institutions, and the private and nonprofit sectors.
    ``(h) CEQ Guidance.--The Chairman of the Council on Environmental 
Quality, taking into consideration the recommendations provided by the 
Interagency Council under subsection (f)(7), shall issue guidance to 
agencies on--
            ``(1) developing agency extreme weather plans; and
            ``(2) developing agency regulations, guidance, and policies 
        to remove barriers to State and local extreme weather 
        resiliency, preparedness, and risk management.
``Sec. 9902. Agency planning for extreme weather-related risks
    ``(a) Agency Extreme Weather Resiliency, Preparedness, and Risk 
Management Plans.--
            ``(1) Agency submission.--Not later than 1 year after the 
        date of enactment of this chapter, and every 2 years 
        thereafter, each agency shall submit to the Office of 
        Management and Budget and to the Interagency Council a 
        comprehensive plan that integrates consideration of extreme 
        weather into such agency's operations and overall mission 
        objectives (hereinafter referred to as an `agency extreme 
        weather plan').
            ``(2) Hearing.--Not later than 1 year after the date of 
        enactment of this chapter, and every 2 years thereafter, the 
        Director of the Office of Management and Budget shall convene 
        an interagency budget crosscut and policy hearing to review and 
        integrate all the agency extreme weather plans and to ensure 
        that such extreme weather plans and the activities of agencies 
        align with the goals and priorities established under section 
        9901(f)(1)(A).
            ``(3) OMB submission.--The Director of the Office of 
        Management and Budget shall, upon receipt of all agency extreme 
        weather plans in a given year, consolidate, and submit to 
        Congress, such plans.
    ``(b) Inclusions.--Each agency extreme weather plan shall include--
            ``(1) identification and assessment of extreme weather-
        related impacts on, and risks to--
                    ``(A) the agency's ability to accomplish its 
                missions, operations, and programs; and
                    ``(B) State and local entities;
            ``(2) identification and assessment of barriers posed by 
        Federal programs the agency administers to State and local 
        extreme weather resiliency, preparedness, and risk management 
        efforts;
            ``(3) a description of programs, policies, and plans the 
        agency has already put in place, as well as additional actions 
        the agency will take, to manage extreme weather risks in the 
        near term and build resilience in the short and long term;
            ``(4) a description of how the agency will consider the 
        need to improve extreme weather resiliency, preparedness, and 
        risk management, including the costs and benefits of such 
        improvement, with respect to agency suppliers, supply chain, 
        real property investments, and capital equipment purchases, 
        including by updating agency policies for leasing, building 
        upgrades, relocation of existing facilities and equipment, and 
        construction of new facilities;
            ``(5) a description of how the agency will support any 
        ongoing or future public/private partnership to improve extreme 
        weather resiliency, preparedness, and risk management, 
        including the cost and benefits of technology improvements, 
        hardening, or rapid restoration;
            ``(6) a description of how the agency will contribute to 
        coordinated interagency efforts to support extreme weather 
        resiliency, preparedness, and risk management at all levels of 
        government, including collaborative work across agencies' 
        regional offices and hubs, and through coordinated development 
        of information, data, and tools, consistent with subchapter 
        III; and
            ``(7) any other details identified by the Interagency 
        Council under section 9901(f)(1)(B)(ii).

 ``SUBCHAPTER II--ASSISTANCE IN IDENTIFYING THE BEST AVAILABLE SCIENCE 
AND EXTREME WEATHER RESILIENCY, PREPAREDNESS, AND RISK MANAGEMENT BEST 
                               PRACTICES

``Sec. 9911. USGCRP Web site
    ``(a) In General.--The United States Global Change Research 
Program, in consultation with the Interagency Council, shall designate 
an agency that participates in such Program to establish and maintain, 
on behalf of such Program, an Internet Web site that provides timely, 
actionable, and accessible extreme weather resiliency, preparedness, 
and risk management-related information.
    ``(b) Interagency Progress.--The Web site established under 
subsection (a) shall identify interagency progress, and propose the 
next interagency steps, towards responding to threats posed by extreme 
weather.
    ``(c) Best Practices.--The Web site established under subsection 
(a) shall provide best practices and examples from State, regional, and 
local decisionmakers in the public and private sectors about how to use 
extreme-weather-related information in planning and decisionmaking.
    ``(d) Interagency Council Information and Tools.--The Web site 
established under subsection (a) shall include the information, data, 
tools, and examples provided by the Interagency Council pursuant to 
section 9901(f)(4).
    ``(e) Best Available Meteorological Science.--The Web site 
established under subsection (a) shall identify best available 
meteorological science relating to extreme weather resiliency, 
preparedness, and risk management.
    ``(f) Public Outreach and Education.--The United States Global 
Change Research Program shall designate an agency that participates in 
such Program to conduct outreach and educational activities to inform 
the public and local and State decisionmakers about the tools and 
information available on the Web site established under subsection (a).
``Sec. 9912. Adequate funding
    ``The Director of the Office of Management and Budget shall work 
with the United States Global Change Research Program to ensure that 
adequate funding is requested--
            ``(1) for the National Climate Assessment;
            ``(2) for the Internet Web site established under section 
        9911; and
            ``(3) to otherwise carry out this chapter.

                ``SUBCHAPTER III--REGIONAL COORDINATION

``Sec. 9921. Inventory
    ``(a) In General.--Not later than 1 year after the date of 
enactment of this chapter, and every 2 years thereafter, the 
Interagency Council, or a working group of such Interagency Council 
established by the co-chairpersons thereof, shall conduct and publish 
an inventory of all regional offices, centers, and programs of agencies 
that are assisting with extreme weather resiliency, preparedness, and 
risk management efforts at the State or local level, including--
            ``(1) the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration's 
        regional programs;
            ``(2) the Department of the Interior's Fish and Wildlife 
        Service Landscape Conservation Cooperatives;
            ``(3) the United States Geological Survey's Climate Science 
        Centers;
            ``(4) the Department of Agriculture's Climate Hubs;
            ``(5) the regional offices of--
                    ``(A) the Environmental Protection Agency;
                    ``(B) the Federal Emergency Management Agency;
                    ``(C) the Army Corps of Engineers; and
                    ``(D) the Forest Service; and
            ``(6) such other offices, centers, and programs or other 
        agency efforts as determined appropriate by the Interagency 
        Council.
    ``(b) Assistance Described.--An inventory conducted and published 
under subsection (a) shall include a description of the assistance each 
agency office, center, or program is providing to assist with extreme 
weather resiliency, preparedness, and risk management efforts at the 
State or local level.
``Sec. 9922. Meetings
    ``Not later than 6 months after the publication of each inventory 
under section 9921, the Interagency Council shall convene a meeting of 
representatives of the offices, centers, and programs included in such 
inventory to develop plans to coordinate the efforts of such offices, 
centers, and programs and facilitate efficient services to 
stakeholders. At such meetings, such representatives shall--
            ``(1) share information regarding their office, center, or 
        program's extreme weather resiliency, preparedness, and risk 
        management efforts;
            ``(2) identify opportunities for collaboration and 
        coordination of research agendas, extreme weather assessment 
        activities, vulnerability assessments, data collection and 
        analysis, and planning and implementing extreme weather 
        resiliency, preparedness, and risk management projects;
            ``(3) identify extreme weather resiliency, preparedness, 
        and risk management information needs, research gaps, and 
        decision support needs that are not met by any of the offices, 
        centers, or programs included in the inventory under section 
        9921 and provide for such identification in an agency report 
        submitted to the Interagency Council under section 9923;
            ``(4) identify common and complementary goals for extreme 
        weather resiliency, preparedness, and risk management within 
        each region to be prioritized for the coming year and beyond;
            ``(5) identify barriers to regional extreme weather 
        resiliency, preparedness, and risk management planning and 
        implementation that can be overcome or minimized through 
        Federal action and specific suggestions for improvement;
            ``(6) evaluate progress and jointly develop a strategy for 
        realizing extreme weather resiliency, preparedness, and risk 
        management-related goals, including clearly identified 
        responsibilities by each collaborating regional office, center, 
        or program; and
            ``(7) share experiences and best practices in stakeholder 
        engagement and communication, decision support, and science-
        practice interactions that support the realization of 
        identified extreme weather resiliency, preparedness, and risk 
        management goals.
``Sec. 9923. Progress reports
    ``Not later than 90 days after each meeting under section 9922, 
each agency that participates in such meeting shall submit to the 
Interagency Council, and make available to the United States Global 
Change Research Program for inclusion in the National Climate 
Assessment, a report describing progress in regional coordination and 
collaboration in aligning Federal resiliency, preparedness, and risk 
management efforts at the State and local level, and the benefits of 
such regional coordination and collaboration.

                      ``SUBCHAPTER IV--DEFINITIONS

``Sec. 9931. Definitions
    ``In this chapter:
            ``(1) Agency.--The term `agency' means an Executive agency, 
        as defined in section 105 of title 5, United States Code, 
        excluding the Government Accountability Office.
            ``(2) Agency extreme weather plan.--The term `agency 
        extreme weather plan' means a plan required under section 
        9902(a).
            ``(3) Extreme weather.--The term `extreme weather' includes 
        observed or anticipated severe and unseasonable atmospheric 
        conditions, including heavy precipitation, hurricanes, 
        tornadoes and other windstorms (including derechos), extreme 
        heat, extreme cold, sustained temperatures or precipitation 
        that deviate from historical averages, and any other weather 
        event that the Interagency Council determines qualifies as 
        extreme weather.
            ``(4) Interagency council.--The term `Interagency Council' 
        means the Interagency Council on Extreme Weather Resiliency, 
        Preparedness, and Risk Management established under section 
        9901(a).
            ``(5) National climate assessment.--The term `National 
        Climate Assessment' means the assessment required under section 
        106 of the Global Change Research Act of 1990 (15 U.S.C. 2936).
            ``(6) National global change research plan.--The term 
        `National Global Change Research Plan' means the National 
        Global Change Research Plan developed under section 104 of the 
        Global Change Research Act of 1990 (15 U.S.C. 2934), or any 
        revision thereof.
            ``(7) United states global change research program.--The 
        term `United States Global Change Research Program' means the 
        United States Global Change Research Program established under 
        section 103 of the Global Change Research Act of 1990 (15 
        U.S.C. 2933).''.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of chapters at the beginning of 
subtitle VI of title 31, United States Code, is amended by inserting 
after the item relating to chapter 97 the following new item:

``99.  Extreme weather resiliency, preparedness, and risk       9901''.
                            management.

SEC. 4. REQUIREMENT TO INCLUDE AGENCY EXTREME WEATHER PLAN IN AGENCY 
              PERFORMANCE PLAN.

    (a) Requirement.--Section 1115(b) of title 31, United States Code, 
is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (9), by striking ``and'' at the end;
            (2) in paragraph (10), by striking the period at the end 
        and inserting ``; and''; and
            (3) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
            ``(11) describe the most recent agency extreme weather 
        plan, as required under section 9902 of this title.''.
    (b) Agencies Covered.--Section 1115(h)(1) of such title is amended 
by inserting before the semicolon at the end the following: ``except 
that, for purposes of subsection (b)(11), the definition of `agency' in 
section 9931 of this title shall apply''.
                                 <all>
