
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 5397 Introduced in House (IH)]

113th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                H. R. 5397

    To modify the boundary of Yosemite National Park, and for other 
                               purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                             August 1, 2014

  Mr. McClintock (for himself and Mr. Bishop of Utah) introduced the 
    following bill; which was referred to the Committee on Natural 
                               Resources

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
    To modify the boundary of Yosemite National Park, and for other 
                               purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Yosemite National Park Public Access 
Preservation and Boundary Modification Act''.

SEC. 2. DEFINITIONS.

    In this Act:
            (1) Additional land.--The term ``additional land'' means 
        the approximately 1,575 acres of land adjacent to the Park, as 
        generally depicted on the map.
            (2) Map.--The term ``map'' means the map entitled 
        ``Yosemite National Park Location Map for Boundary Line 
        Adjustment (BLA) Areas''.
            (3) Park.--The term ``Park'' means the Yosemite National 
        Park in the State of California.
            (4) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary 
        of the Interior.

SEC. 3. YOSEMITE NATIONAL PARK ADDITIONAL LANDS.

    (a) Acquisition of Land.--The Secretary may acquire, by donation 
only, the additional land or an interest in the additional land to be 
added to the Park.
    (b) Disposal of Equal Land.--The additional land may be acquired 
only after the Secretary has disposed of, by public auction, 
approximately 1,575 acres of Federal land under the administration of 
the Secretary.
    (c) Availability of Map.--The map shall be on file and available 
for inspection in the appropriate offices of the National Park Service.
    (d) Boundary Modification.--The boundary of the Park shall be 
revised to reflect the acquisition of the land under subsection (a).
    (e) Administration.--The Secretary shall administer the additional 
land or interest in the additional land acquired under this section as 
part of the Park in accordance with the laws (including regulations) 
applicable to the Park, except that the Secretary shall--
            (1) not prohibit recreational activities otherwise 
        permitted within Yosemite National Park on the date of 
        enactment of this Act; and
            (2) beginning not later than 1 year after acquiring the 
        additional lands, comply with a hazardous fuels reduction plan 
        developed by the Secretary for the additional lands.
    (f) No Use of Condemnation.--As specified in subsection (a), the 
Secretary may not acquire by condemnation any land or interest in land 
under this Act or for the purposes of this Act.
    (g) No Buffer Zone Created.--Nothing in this Act, the acquisition 
of the additional land or an interest in the additional land, or the 
application of the management plan for the Park to the acquired 
additional land shall be construed to create buffer zones outside of 
the Park. That activities or uses can be seen, heard, or detected from 
the acquired additional land shall not preclude, limit, control, 
regulate or determine the conduct or management of activities or uses 
outside of the Park.
    (h) Written Consent of the Owner.--As specified in subsection (a), 
which authorizes the acquisition of the additional land by donation 
only, no non-Federal property may be included in the Park without the 
written consent of the owner.
                                 <all>
