
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H. Res. 544 Engrossed in House (EH)]

H. Res. 544

                In the House of Representatives, U. S.,

                                                         April 8, 2014.
    Resolved, That at any time after the adoption of this resolution the Speaker 
may, pursuant to clause 2(b) of rule XVIII, declare the House resolved into the 
Committee of the Whole House on the state of the Union for consideration of the 
concurrent resolution (H. Con. Res. 96) establishing the budget for the United 
States Government for fiscal year 2015 and setting forth appropriate budgetary 
levels for fiscal years 2016 through 2024. The first reading of the concurrent 
resolution shall be dispensed with. All points of order against consideration of 
the concurrent resolution are waived. General debate shall not exceed four 
hours, with three hours of general debate confined to the congressional budget 
equally divided and controlled by the chair and ranking minority member of the 
Committee on the Budget and one hour of general debate on the subject of 
economic goals and policies equally divided and controlled by Representative 
Brady of Texas and Representative Carolyn Maloney of New York or their 
respective designees. After general debate the concurrent resolution shall be 
considered for amendment under the five-minute rule. The concurrent resolution 
shall be considered as read. No amendment shall be in order except those printed 
in the report of the Committee on Rules accompanying this resolution. Each 
amendment may be offered only in the order printed in the report, may be offered 
only by a Member designated in the report, shall be considered as read, and 
shall be debatable for the time specified in the report equally divided and 
controlled by the proponent and an opponent. All points of order against such 
amendments are waived except that the adoption of an amendment in the nature of 
a substitute shall constitute the conclusion of consideration of the concurrent 
resolution for amendment. After the conclusion of consideration of the 
concurrent resolution for amendment and a final period of general debate, which 
shall not exceed 10 minutes equally divided and controlled by the chair and 
ranking minority member of the Committee on the Budget, the Committee shall rise 
and report the concurrent resolution to the House with such amendment as may 
have been adopted. The previous question shall be considered as ordered on the 
concurrent resolution and amendments thereto to adoption without intervening 
motion except amendments offered by the chair of the Committee on the Budget 
pursuant to section 305(a)(5) of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974 to achieve 
mathematical consistency. The concurrent resolution shall not be subject to a 
demand for division of the question of its adoption.
    Sec. 2.  On any legislative day during the period from April 11, 2014, 
through April 25, 2014--
     (a) the Journal of the proceedings of the previous day shall be considered 
as approved; and
    (b) the Chair may at any time declare the House adjourned to meet at a date 
and time, within the limits of clause 4, section 5, article I of the 
Constitution, to be announced by the Chair in declaring the adjournment.
    Sec. 3.  The Speaker may appoint Members to perform the duties of the Chair 
for the duration of the period addressed by section 2 of this resolution as 
though under clause 8(a) of rule I.
    Sec. 4.  Each day during the period addressed by section 2 of this 
resolution shall not constitute a calendar day for purposes of section 7 of the 
War Powers Resolution (50 U.S.C. 1546).
    Sec. 5.  The Committee on Appropriations may, at any time before 5 p.m. on 
Thursday, April 17, 2014, file privileged reports to accompany measures making 
appropriations for the fiscal year ending September 30, 2015.
            Attest:

                                                                          Clerk.
