
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 171 Introduced in House (IH)]

113th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                H. R. 171

  To amend the Public Health Service Act to authorize appointment of 
  Doctors of Chiropractic to regular and reserve corps of the Public 
       Health Service Commissioned Corps, and for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                            January 4, 2013

   Mr. Gene Green of Texas introduced the following bill; which was 
            referred to the Committee on Energy and Commerce

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
  To amend the Public Health Service Act to authorize appointment of 
  Doctors of Chiropractic to regular and reserve corps of the Public 
       Health Service Commissioned Corps, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Chiropractic Membership in the 
Public Health Service Commissioned Corps Act of 2013''.

SEC. 2. DOCTORS OF CHIROPRACTIC IN THE PUBLIC HEALTH SERVICE 
              COMMISSIONED CORPS.

    (a) Appointment of Personnel.--Section 207(a)(1) of the Public 
Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 209(a)(1)) is amended by inserting 
``chiropractic,'' after ``nursing,''.
    (b) Authorization of Appointment of Doctors of Chiropractic.--
Section 207 of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 209) is amended 
by adding at the end the following new subsection:
    ``(j) Appointment of Doctors of Chiropractic.--Doctors of 
Chiropractic who are graduates of colleges of chiropractic whose 
graduates are eligible for licensure to practice chiropractic in a 
majority of the States of the United States, or approved by a body or 
bodies acceptable to the Secretary, shall be eligible for appointment 
as officers in the commissioned Regular Corps and the Ready Reserve 
Corps of the Public Health Service. The Secretary and the Surgeon 
General shall ensure that such Doctors of Chiropractic are trained, 
equipped, and otherwise prepared to fulfill applicable public health 
and emergency response service responsibilities in the Commissioned 
Corps.''.
    (c) Required Placement of Doctors of Chiropractic Into Public 
Health Service Commissioned Corps.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 90 days after the date of 
        the enactment of this Act, the President, in consultation with 
        the Surgeon General and the Secretary of Health and Human 
        Services, shall commence the appointment of no fewer than 6 
        Doctors of Chiropractic into the commissioned Regular Corps and 
        the Ready Reserve Corps of the Public Health Service.
            (2) Reports.--The Surgeon General shall submit to the 
        Committee on Energy and Commerce of the House of 
        Representatives and the Committee on Health Education Labor and 
        Pensions of the Senate quarterly reports on all measures taken 
        by the President, the Surgeon General, and the Secretary of 
        Health and Human Services to carry out the provisions of this 
        Act, including the amendments made by this Act. The first such 
        report shall be submitted not later than 120 days after the 
        date of the enactment of this Act.
    (d) Authorization of Appropriations.--Out of the total aggregate 
appropriations made available to the Department of Health and Human 
Services through annual appropriations Acts for fiscal years 2014, 
2015, 2016, and 2017, $1,500,000 is authorized and shall be made 
available in each of such fiscal years only for the salaries and 
expenses necessary to carry out this Act.
                                 <all>
