
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 3095 Reported in House (RH)]

                                                 Union Calendar No. 165
113th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                H. R. 3095

                          [Report No. 113-225]

    To ensure that any new or revised requirement providing for the 
 screening, testing, or treatment of individuals operating commercial 
motor vehicles for sleep disorders is adopted pursuant to a rulemaking 
                  proceeding, and for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                           September 12, 2013

Mr. Bucshon (for himself, Mr. Lipinski, Mr. Radel, Mr. Farenthold, Mr. 
Young of Alaska, Mr. Hanna, Mr. Gibbs, Mr. Ribble, Mr. Meehan, and Mr. 
 Southerland) introduced the following bill; which was referred to the 
             Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure

                           September 25, 2013

 Additional sponsors: Mr. Cramer, Mr. Mullin, Mr. Renacci, Mr. Hudson, 
    Mr. Duncan of Tennessee, Mr. Carson of Indiana, Mr. Thompson of 
Mississippi, Ms. Jenkins, Mr. Rodney Davis of Illinois, Mr. Denham, Mr. 
   Graves of Missouri, Mr. Jones, Mr. Butterfield, Mr. LoBiondo, Mr. 
Joyce, Mrs. Napolitano, Mr. Barletta, Mr. Olson, Mr. Hunter, Mrs. Noem, 
Mr. Coble, Mr. Williams, Mr. Webster of Florida, Mr. Massie, Mr. Nolan, 
  Mrs. Bustos, Mrs. Hartzler, Mr. Smith of Missouri, Mr. Schock, Mr. 
   Michaud, Mr. Peterson, Mr. Walz, Mr. Walberg, Mr. Bilirakis, Mr. 
  Crawford, Mr. DeFazio, Mr. Latta, Mrs. Ellmers, Mr. Wilson of South 
Carolina, Mr. Gerlach, Mr. Gibson, Mr. Latham, Mr. Terry, Mr. Stivers, 
 Mr. Jordan, Mr. Long, Mr. King of New York, Mr. Pompeo, Mr. Young of 
   Indiana, Mr. DesJarlais, Mr. Huelskamp, Ms. Brown of Florida, Mr. 
  Larson of Connecticut, Mr. Holding, Mr. Tiberi, Ms. Duckworth, Mr. 
Rogers of Michigan, Mr. Braley of Iowa, Mr. Cleaver, and Mr. Rogers of 
                                Alabama

                           September 25, 2013

Committed to the Committee of the Whole House on the State of the Union 
                       and ordered to be printed


_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
    To ensure that any new or revised requirement providing for the 
 screening, testing, or treatment of individuals operating commercial 
motor vehicles for sleep disorders is adopted pursuant to a rulemaking 
                  proceeding, and for other purposes.


 


    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. COMMERCIAL MOTOR VEHICLE OPERATOR REQUIREMENTS RELATING TO 
              SLEEP DISORDERS.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary of Transportation may implement or 
enforce a requirement providing for the screening, testing, or 
treatment (including consideration of all possible treatment 
alternatives) of individuals operating commercial motor vehicles for 
sleep disorders only if the requirement is adopted pursuant to a 
rulemaking proceeding.
    (b) Applicability.--Subsection (a) shall not apply to a requirement 
that was in force before September 1, 2013.
    (c) Sleep Disorders Defined.--In this section, the term ``sleep 
disorders'' includes obstructive sleep apnea.
                                                 Union Calendar No. 165

113th CONGRESS

  1st Session

                               H. R. 3095

                          [Report No. 113-225]

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL

    To ensure that any new or revised requirement providing for the 
 screening, testing, or treatment of individuals operating commercial 
motor vehicles for sleep disorders is adopted pursuant to a rulemaking 
                  proceeding, and for other purposes.

_______________________________________________________________________

                           September 25, 2013

Committed to the Committee of the Whole House on the State of the Union 
                       and ordered to be printed
