
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 3006 Referred in Senate (RFS)]

113th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                H. R. 3006


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                           September 16, 2014

   Received; read twice and referred to the Committee on Energy and 
                           Natural Resources

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 AN ACT


 
To authorize a land exchange involving the acquisition of private land 
    adjacent to the Cibola National Wildlife Refuge in Arizona for 
    inclusion in the refuge in exchange for certain Bureau of Land 
    Management lands in Riverside County, California, and for other 
                               purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. DEFINITIONS.

    In this Act--
            (1) Map 1.--The term ``Map 1'' means the map entitled 
        ``Specified Parcel of Public Land in California'' and dated 
        July 18, 2014.
            (2) Map 2.--The term ``Map 2'' means the map entitled 
        ``River Bottom Farm Lands'' and dated July 18, 2014.

SEC. 2. LAND EXCHANGE, CIBOLA NATIONAL WILDLIFE REFUGE, ARIZONA, AND 
              BUREAU OF LAND MANAGEMENT LAND IN RIVERSIDE COUNTY, 
              CALIFORNIA.

    (a) Conveyance of Bureau of Land Management Land.--In exchange for 
the land described in subsection (b), the Secretary of the Interior 
shall convey to River Bottom Farms of La Paz County, Arizona, all 
right, title and interest of the United States in and to certain 
Federal land administered by the Secretary through the Bureau of Land 
Management consisting of a total of approximately 80 acres in Riverside 
County, California, identified as ``Parcel A'' on Map 1. The conveyed 
land shall be subject to valid existing rights, including easements, 
rights-of-way, utility lines, and any other valid encumbrances on the 
land as of the date of the conveyance under this section.
    (b) Consideration.--As consideration for the conveyance of the 
Federal land under subsection (a), River Bottom Farms shall convey to 
the United States all right, title, and interest of River Bottom Farms 
in and to two parcels of land contiguous to the Cibola National 
Wildlife Refuge in La Paz County, Arizona, consisting of a total of 
approximately 40 acres in La Paz County, Arizona, identified as 
``Parcel 301-05-005B-9'' and ``Parcel 301-05-008-0'' on Map 2.
    (c) Equal Value Exchange.--The values of the Federal land and non-
Federal land to be exchanged under this section shall be equal or 
equalized by the payment of cash to the Secretary by River Bottom 
Farms, if appropriate, pursuant to section 206(b) of the Federal Land 
Policy Management Act (43 U.S.C. 1716(b)). The value of the land shall 
be determined by the Secretary through an appraisal performed by a 
qualified appraiser mutually agreed to by the Secretary and River 
Bottom Farms and performed in conformance with the Uniform Appraisal 
Standards for Federal Land Acquisitions (U.S. Department of Justice, 
December 2000). If the final appraised value of the non-Federal land 
(``Parcel 301-05-005B-9'' and ``Parcel 301-05-008-0'' on Map 2) exceeds 
the value of the Federal land (``Parcel A'' on Map 1), the surplus 
value of the non-Federal land shall be considered to be a donation by 
River Bottom Farms to the United States.
    (d) Exchange Timetable.--The Secretary shall complete the land 
exchange under this section not later than 1 year after the date of the 
expiration of any existing Bureau of Land Management lease agreement or 
agreements affecting the Federal land (``Parcel A'' on Map 1) to be 
exchanged under this section, unless the Secretary and River Bottom 
Farms mutually agree to extend such deadline.
    (e) Administration of Acquired Land.--The land acquired by the 
Secretary under subsection (b) shall become part of the Cibola National 
Wildlife Refuge and be administered in accordance with the laws and 
regulations generally applicable to the National Wildlife Refuge 
System.

            Passed the House of Representatives September 15, 2014.

            Attest:

                                                 KAREN L. HAAS,

                                                                 Clerk.
