
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H. Res. 775 Engrossed in House (EH)]

H. Res. 775

                In the House of Representatives, U. S.,

                                                     December 10, 2014.
    Resolved, That upon adoption of this resolution it shall be in order to 
consider in the House the bill (S. 2244) to extend the termination date of the 
Terrorism Insurance Program established under the Terrorism Risk Insurance Act 
of 2002, and for other purposes. All points of order against consideration of 
the bill are waived. The amendment in the nature of a substitute printed in the 
report of the Committee on Rules accompanying this resolution shall be 
considered as adopted. The bill, as amended, shall be considered as read. All 
points of order against provisions in the bill, as amended, are waived. The 
previous question shall be considered as ordered on the bill, as amended, and on 
any further amendment thereto, to final passage without intervening motion 
except: (1) one hour of debate equally divided and controlled by the chair and 
ranking minority member of the Committee on Financial Services; and (2) one 
motion to commit with or without instructions.
    Sec. 2.  It shall be in order at any time on the legislative day of December 
11, 2014, for the Speaker to entertain motions that the House suspend the rules 
as though under clause 1 of rule XV. The Speaker or his designee shall consult 
with the Minority Leader or her designee on the designation of any matter for 
consideration pursuant to this section.
    Sec. 3.  On any legislative day of the second session of the One Hundred 
Thirteenth Congress after December 11, 2014--
     (a) the Journal of the proceedings of the previous day shall be considered 
as approved; and
    (b) the Chair may at any time declare the House adjourned to meet at a date 
and time, within the limits of clause 4, section 5, article I of the 
Constitution, to be announced by the Chair in declaring the adjournment.
    Sec. 4.  The Speaker may appoint Members to perform the duties of the Chair 
for the duration of the period addressed by section 3 of this resolution as 
though under clause 8(a) of rule I.
    Sec. 5.  Each day during the period addressed by section 3 of this 
resolution shall not constitute a calendar day for purposes of section 7 of the 
War Powers Resolution (50 U.S.C. 1546).
    Sec. 6.  Each day during the period addressed by section 3 of this 
resolution shall not constitute a legislative day for purposes of clause 7 of 
rule XIII.
            Attest:

                                                                          Clerk.
