
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 4608 Introduced in House (IH)]

113th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                H. R. 4608

 To repeal the Authorization for Use of Military Force, and for other 
                               purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                              May 8, 2014

     Ms. Lee of California (for herself, Mr. Broun of Georgia, Ms. 
  Slaughter, Mr. Massie, Mr. Hastings of Florida, Mr. Garamendi, Mr. 
 Stockman, Mr. Yoho, Mr. Jones, Mr. Amash, Mr. Posey, Mr. Conyers, and 
 Mr. Ellison) introduced the following bill; which was referred to the 
   Committee on Foreign Affairs, and in addition to the Committee on 
 Rules, for a period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in 
   each case for consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
                jurisdiction of the committee concerned

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
 To repeal the Authorization for Use of Military Force, and for other 
                               purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``War Authorization Review and 
Determination Act'' or ``WARD Act''.

SEC. 2. REPORT TO CONGRESS.

    (a) In General.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the President shall submit to Congress, in 
writing, a report setting forth each operation or other action that is 
being carried out pursuant to the Authorization for Use of Military 
Force (Public Law 107-40; 50 U.S.C. 1541 note) as of the date of the 
submission of the report.
    (b) Form.--The report shall be submitted in unclassified form but 
may contain a classified annex as appropriate.

SEC. 3. OPERATIONS AND OTHER ACTIONS UNDER AUTHORIZATION FOR USE OF 
              MILITARY FORCE.

    (a) In General.--Within 60 days after a report is submitted 
pursuant to section 2(a), the President shall terminate each operation 
or other action described in the report, unless a joint resolution 
described in subsection (b) with respect to the operation or other 
action is enacted into law in accordance with such subsection.
    (b) Joint Resolution Described.--
            (1) In general.--For purposes of this section, a joint 
        resolution referred to in subsection (a) is a joint resolution 
        of the two Houses of Congress, which does not contain a 
        preamble, and the sole matter after the resolving clause of 
        which is as follows: ``That Congress approves the ____ as 
        contained in the report submitted to Congress pursuant to 
        section 2(a) of the War Authorization Review and Determination 
        Act on _____.'' with the first blank space being filled with a 
        description of the applicable operation (or operations) or 
        other action (or other actions) and the second blank space 
        being filled with the appropriate date.
            (2) Expedited congressional procedures.--The provisions of 
        section 6 of the War Powers Resolution (50 U.S.C. 1545) shall 
        apply to a joint resolution described in paragraph (1) to the 
        same extent as such section 6 applies to a joint resolution or 
        bill under that section.

SEC. 4. REPEAL OF AUTHORIZATION FOR USE OF MILITARY FORCE.

    (a) In General.--The Authorization for Use of Military Force 
(Public Law 107-40; 50 U.S.C. 1541 note) is hereby repealed.
    (b) Effective Date.--The repeal contained in subsection (a)--
            (1) takes effect on the date that is 240 days after the 
        date of the enactment of this Act; and
            (2) applies with respect to each operation or other action 
        that is being carried out pursuant to the Authorization for Use 
        of Military Force initiated before such effective date.

SEC. 5. RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.

    (a) In General.--Nothing in this Act--
            (1) shall be construed as limiting or prohibiting any 
        authority of the President under any provision of law other 
        than the Authorization for Use of Military Force (Public Law 
        107-40; 50 U.S.C. 1541 note); or
            (2) shall be construed as limiting or prohibiting any 
        authority of the President to respond to, or to prevent 
        imminent attacks, on the United States, its territorial 
        possessions, its embassies, its consulates, or its Armed Forces 
        abroad, consistent with and limited to the President's 
        constitutional powers and responsibilities as Commander-in-
        Chief.
    (b) Authorization for Future Operations or Other Actions.--Nothing 
in this Act shall be construed as limiting or prohibiting any authority 
of the President to submit to Congress proposed legislation to 
authorize operations or other actions relating to the use of military 
force initiated on or after the effective date described in section 
4(a).
                                 <all>
