
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 5016 Referred in Senate (RFS)]

113th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                H. R. 5016


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                             July 17, 2014

  Received; read twice and referred to the Committee on Appropriations

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 AN ACT


 
Making appropriations for financial services and general government for 
   the fiscal year ending September 30, 2015, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled, 
That the following sums are appropriated, out of any money in the 
Treasury not otherwise appropriated, for the fiscal year ending 
September 30, 2015, and for other purposes, namely:

                                TITLE I

                       DEPARTMENT OF THE TREASURY

                          Departmental Offices

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Departmental Offices including 
operation and maintenance of the Treasury Building and Annex; hire of 
passenger motor vehicles; maintenance, repairs, and improvements of, 
and purchase of commercial insurance policies for, real properties 
leased or owned overseas, when necessary for the performance of 
official business, $175,000,000 (reduced by $1,750,000): Provided, 
That, of the amount appropriated under this heading--
            (1) not to exceed $2,000,000 is for the Office of the 
        Secretary/Deputy Secretary;
            (2) not to exceed $2,000,000 is for the Office of 
        Legislative Affairs;
            (3) not to exceed $200,000 is for official reception and 
        representation expenses;
            (4) not to exceed $258,000 is for unforeseen emergencies of 
        a confidential nature to be allocated and expended under the 
        direction of the Secretary of the Treasury and to be accounted 
        for solely on the Secretary's certificate; and
            (5) up to $21,000,000 shall remain available until 
        September 30, 2016.

             office of terrorism and financial intelligence

                         salaries and expenses

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For the necessary expenses of the Office of Terrorism and Financial 
Intelligence to safeguard the financial system against illicit use and 
to combat rogue nations, terrorist facilitators, weapons of mass 
destruction proliferators, money launderers, drug kingpins, and other 
national security threats, $120,000,000: Provided, That of the amount 
appropriated under this heading: (1) not to exceed $28,000,000 is 
available for administrative expenses; and (2) $15,000,000, to remain 
available until September 30, 2017: Provided further, That the 
unobligated balances of prior year appropriations made available for 
terrorism and financial intelligence activities under the heading 
``Department of the Treasury--Departmental Offices--Salaries and 
Expenses'' shall be transferred to, and merged with, this account.

                      office of inspector general

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Inspector General in 
carrying out the provisions of the Inspector General Act of 1978, 
$35,351,000, including hire of passenger motor vehicles; of which not 
to exceed $100,000 shall be available for unforeseen emergencies of a 
confidential nature, to be allocated and expended under the direction 
of the Inspector General of the Treasury; and of which not to exceed 
$1,000 shall be available for official reception and representation 
expenses.

           treasury inspector general for tax administration

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Treasury Inspector General for Tax 
Administration in carrying out the Inspector General Act of 1978, 
including purchase and hire of passenger motor vehicles (31 U.S.C. 
1343(b)); and services authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, at such rates as 
may be determined by the Inspector General for Tax Administration; 
$158,000,000 (increased by $1,000,000), of which $5,000,000 shall 
remain available until September 30, 2016; of which not to exceed 
$500,000 shall be available for unforeseen emergencies of a 
confidential nature, to be allocated and expended under the direction 
of the Inspector General for Tax Administration; and of which not to 
exceed $1,500 shall be available for official reception and 
representation expenses.

    special inspector general for the troubled asset relief program

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Office of the Special Inspector 
General in carrying out the provisions of the Emergency Economic 
Stabilization Act of 2008 (Public Law 110-343), $34,234,000.

                  Financial Crimes Enforcement Network

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Financial Crimes Enforcement Network, 
including hire of passenger motor vehicles; travel and training 
expenses of non-Federal and foreign government personnel to attend 
meetings and training concerned with domestic and foreign financial 
intelligence activities, law enforcement, and financial regulation; 
services authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109; not to exceed $7,000 for official 
reception and representation expenses; and for assistance to Federal 
law enforcement agencies, with or without reimbursement, $108,661,000 
(increased by $3,339,000), of which not to exceed $34,335,000 shall 
remain available until September 30, 2017.

                        Treasury Forfeiture Fund

                              (rescission)

    Of the unobligated balances available under this heading, 
$750,000,000 are rescinded.

                      Bureau of the Fiscal Service

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of operations of the Bureau of the Fiscal 
Service, $348,184,000; of which not to exceed $4,210,000, to remain 
available until September 30, 2017, is for information systems 
modernization initiatives; and of which $5,000 shall be available for 
official reception and representation expenses.
    In addition, $165,000, to be derived from the Oil Spill Liability 
Trust Fund to reimburse administrative and personnel expenses for 
financial management of the Fund, as authorized by section 1012 of 
Public Law 101-380.

                Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of carrying out section 1111 of the Homeland 
Security Act of 2002, including hire of passenger motor vehicles, 
$96,000,000; of which not to exceed $6,000 for official reception and 
representation expenses; not to exceed $50,000 for cooperative research 
and development programs for laboratory services; and provision of 
laboratory assistance to State and local agencies with or without 
reimbursement.

                           United States Mint

               united states mint public enterprise fund

    Pursuant to section 5136 of title 31, United States Code, the 
United States Mint is provided funding through the United States Mint 
Public Enterprise Fund for costs associated with the production of 
circulating coins, numismatic coins, and protective services, including 
both operating expenses and capital investments: Provided, That the 
aggregate amount of new liabilities and obligations incurred during 
fiscal year 2015 under such section 5136 for circulating coinage and 
protective service capital investments of the United States Mint shall 
not exceed $20,000,000.

   Community Development Financial Institutions Fund Program Account

    To carry out the Riegle Community Development and Regulatory 
Improvements Act of 1994 (subtitle A of title I of Public Law 103-325), 
including services authorized by section 3109 of title 5, United States 
Code, but at rates for individuals not to exceed the per diem rate 
equivalent to the rate for EX-3, $230,000,000 (increased by $500,000). 
Of the amount appropriated under this heading--
            (1) not less than $177,000,000 is available until September 
        30, 2016, for financial assistance and technical assistance 
        under sections 108(a)(1)(A) and 108(a)(1)(B), respectively, of 
        Public Law 103-325, of which up to $3,102,500 may be used for 
        the cost of direct loans: Provided, That the cost of direct 
        loans, including the cost of modifying such loans, shall be as 
        defined in section 502 of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974: 
        Provided further, That these funds are available to subsidize 
        gross obligations for the principal amount of direct loans not 
        to exceed $25,000,000;
            (2) not less than $15,000,000 is available until September 
        30, 2016, for financial assistance, technical assistance, 
        training and outreach programs, designed to benefit Native 
        American, Native Hawaiian, and Alaskan Native communities and 
        provided primarily through qualified community development 
        lender organizations with experience and expertise in community 
        development banking and lending in Indian country, Native 
        American organizations, tribes and tribal organizations and 
        other suitable providers;
            (3) not less than $18,000,000 is available until September 
        30, 2016, for the Bank Enterprise Award program; and
            (4) up to $20,000,000 may be used for administrative 
        expenses, of which up to $300,000 for the administrative 
        expenses of a direct loan program.

                        Internal Revenue Service

                           taxpayer services

    For necessary expenses of the Internal Revenue Service to provide 
taxpayer services, including pre-filing assistance and education, 
filing and account services, taxpayer advocacy services, the operating 
expenses of the Taxpayer Advocate Service, and other services as 
authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, at such rates as may be determined by the 
Commissioner, $2,130,000,000 (reduced by $1,000,000) (increased by 
$10,000,000), of which not less than $5,600,000 (increased by 
$2,800,000) shall be for the Tax Counseling for the Elderly Program, of 
which not less than $10,000,000 shall be available for low-income 
taxpayer clinic grants, and of which not less than $12,000,000, to 
remain available until September 30, 2016, shall be available for a 
Community Volunteer Income Tax Assistance matching grants program for 
tax return preparation assistance.

                              enforcement

    For necessary expenses for tax enforcement activities of the 
Internal Revenue Service to determine and collect owed taxes, to 
provide legal and litigation support, to conduct criminal 
investigations, to enforce criminal statutes related to violations of 
internal revenue laws and other financial crimes, to purchase and hire 
passenger motor vehicles (31 U.S.C. 1343(b)), and to provide other 
services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, at such rates as may be 
determined by the Commissioner, $4,950,000,000 (reduced by $1,000,000) 
(reduced by $2,000,000) (reduced by $353,000,000) (reduced by 
$788,111,800) (reduced by $10,000,000), of which not less than 
$60,257,000 shall be for the Interagency Crime and Drug Enforcement 
program.

                           operations support

    For necessary expenses of the Internal Revenue Service to support 
taxpayer services and enforcement programs, including rent payments; 
facilities services; printing; postage; physical security; headquarters 
and other IRS-wide administration activities; research and statistics 
of income; telecommunications; information technology development, 
enhancement, operations, maintenance, and security; the hire of 
passenger motor vehicles (31 U.S.C. 1343(b)); the operations of the 
Internal Revenue Service Oversight Board; and other services as 
authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, at such rates as may be determined by the 
Commissioner; $3,620,000,000 (reduced by $2,000,000), of which not to 
exceed $300,000,000 shall remain available until September 30, 2016, of 
which not to exceed $10,000 shall be for official reception and 
representation expenses: Provided, That not later than 30 days after 
the end of each quarter, the Internal Revenue Service shall submit a 
report to the Committees on Appropriations of the House of 
Representatives and the Senate and the Comptroller General of the 
United States detailing the cost and schedule performance for its major 
information technology investments, including the purpose and life-
cycle stages of the investments; the reasons for any cost and schedule 
variances; the risks of such investments and strategies the Internal 
Revenue Service is using to mitigate such risks; and the expected 
developmental milestones to be achieved and costs to be incurred in the 
next quarter:  Provided further, That the Internal Revenue Service 
shall include, in its budget justification for fiscal year 2016, a 
summary of cost and schedule performance information for its major 
information technology systems.

                     business systems modernization

    For necessary expenses of the Internal Revenue Service's business 
systems modernization program, $250,000,000, to remain available until 
September 30, 2017, for the capital asset acquisition of information 
technology systems, including management and related contractual costs 
of said acquisitions, including related Internal Revenue Service labor 
costs, and contractual costs associated with operations authorized by 5 
U.S.C. 3109: Provided, That not later than 30 days after the end of 
each quarter, the Internal Revenue Service shall submit a report to the 
Committees on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the 
Senate and the Comptroller General of the United States detailing the 
cost and schedule performance for CADE 2 and Modernized e-File 
information technology investments, including the purposes and life-
cycle stages of the investments; the reasons for any cost and schedule 
variances; the risks of such investments and the strategies the 
Internal Revenue Service is using to mitigate such risks; and the 
expected developmental milestones to be achieved and costs to be 
incurred in the next quarter.

          administrative provisions--internal revenue service

                     (including transfer of funds)

    Sec. 101.  Not to exceed 5 percent of any appropriation made 
available in this Act to the Internal Revenue Service may be 
transferred to any other Internal Revenue Service appropriation upon 
the advance approval of the Committees on Appropriations.
    Sec. 102.  The Internal Revenue Service shall maintain an employee 
training program, which shall include the following topics: taxpayers' 
rights, dealing courteously with taxpayers, cross-cultural relations, 
ethics, and the impartial application of tax law.
    Sec. 103.  The Internal Revenue Service shall institute and enforce 
policies and procedures that will safeguard the confidentiality of 
taxpayer information and protect taxpayers against identity theft.
    Sec. 104.  Funds made available by this or any other Act to the 
Internal Revenue Service shall be available for improved facilities and 
increased staffing to provide sufficient and effective 1-800 help line 
service for taxpayers. The Commissioner shall continue to make 
improvements to the Internal Revenue Service 1-800 help line service a 
priority and allocate resources necessary to enhance the response time 
to taxpayer communications, particularly with regard to victims of tax-
related crimes.
    Sec. 105.  None of the funds made available to the Internal Revenue 
Service by this Act may be used to make a video unless the Service-Wide 
Video Editorial Board determines in advance that making the video is 
appropriate, taking into account the cost, topic, tone, and purpose of 
the video.
    Sec. 106.  The Internal Revenue Service shall issue a notice of 
confirmation of any address change relating to an employer making 
employment tax payments, and such notice shall be sent to both the 
employer's former and new address and an officer or employee of the 
Internal Revenue Service shall give special consideration to an offer-
in-compromise from a taxpayer who has been the victim of fraud by a 
third party payroll tax preparer.
    Sec. 107.  None of the funds made available under this Act may be 
used by the Internal Revenue Service to target citizens of the United 
States for exercising any right guaranteed under the First Amendment to 
the Constitution of the United States.
    Sec. 108.  None of the funds made available in this Act may be used 
by the Internal Revenue Service to target groups for regulatory 
scrutiny based on their ideological beliefs.
    Sec. 109.  None of funds made available by this Act to the Internal 
Revenue Service shall be obligated or expended on conferences that do 
not adhere to the procedures, verification processes, documentation 
requirements, and policies issued by the Chief Financial Officer, Human 
Capital Office, and Agency-Wide Shared Services as a result of the 
recommendations in the report published on May 31, 2013, by the 
Treasury Inspector General for Tax Administration entitled ``Review of 
the August 2010 Small Business/Self-Employed Division's Conference in 
Anaheim, California'' (Reference Number 2013-10-037).
    Sec. 110.  None of the funds made available by this Act may be used 
to pay the salaries or expenses of any individual to carry out any 
transfer of funds to the Internal Revenue Service under the Patient 
Protection and Affordable Care Act (Public Law 111-148) or the Health 
Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010 (Public Law 111-152).
    Sec. 111.  None of the funds made available by this Act may be used 
by the Internal Revenue Service to implement or enforce section 5000A 
of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, section 6055 of such Code, 
section 1502(c) of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act 
(Public Law 111-148), or any amendments made by section 1502(b) of such 
Act.
    Sec. 112.  None of the funds made available in this Act to the 
Internal Revenue Service may be obligated or expended under any bonus, 
award, or recognition program that does not consider, with respect to 
determining whether an employee should receive such program funds, the 
conduct and Federal tax compliance of such employee.

         Administrative Provisions--Department of the Treasury

                     (including transfers of funds)

    Sec. 113.  Appropriations to the Department of the Treasury in this 
Act shall be available for uniforms or allowances therefor, as 
authorized by law (5 U.S.C. 5901), including maintenance, repairs, and 
cleaning; purchase of insurance for official motor vehicles operated in 
foreign countries; purchase of motor vehicles without regard to the 
general purchase price limitations for vehicles purchased and used 
overseas for the current fiscal year; entering into contracts with the 
Department of State for the furnishing of health and medical services 
to employees and their dependents serving in foreign countries; and 
services authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109.
    Sec. 114.  Not to exceed 2 percent of any appropriations in this 
title made available under the headings ``Departmental Offices--
Salaries and Expenses'', ``Office of Inspector General'', ``Special 
Inspector General for the Troubled Asset Relief Program'', ``Financial 
Crimes Enforcement Network'', ``Bureau of the Fiscal Service'', 
``Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau'' and ``Community 
Development Financial Institutions Fund Program Account'' may be 
transferred between such appropriations upon the advance approval of 
the Committees on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and 
the Senate: Provided, That no transfer under this section may increase 
or decrease any such appropriation by more than 2 percent.
    Sec. 115.  Not to exceed 2 percent of any appropriation made 
available in this Act to the Internal Revenue Service may be 
transferred to the Treasury Inspector General for Tax Administration's 
appropriation upon the advance approval of the Committees on 
Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the Senate: 
Provided, That no transfer may increase or decrease any such 
appropriation by more than 2 percent.
    Sec. 116.  None of the funds appropriated in this Act or otherwise 
available to the Department of the Treasury or the Bureau of Engraving 
and Printing may be used to redesign the $1 Federal Reserve note.
    Sec. 117.  The Secretary of the Treasury may transfer funds from 
the ``Bureau of the Fiscal Service-Salaries and Expenses'' to the Debt 
Collection Fund as necessary to cover the costs of debt collection: 
Provided, That such amounts shall be reimbursed to such salaries and 
expenses account from debt collections received in the Debt Collection 
Fund.
    Sec. 118.  None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
available by this or any other Act may be used by the United States 
Mint to construct or operate any museum without the explicit approval 
of the Committees on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and 
the Senate, the House Committee on Financial Services, and the Senate 
Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs.
    Sec. 119.  None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
available by this or any other Act or source to the Department of the 
Treasury, the Bureau of Engraving and Printing, and the United States 
Mint, individually or collectively, may be used to consolidate any or 
all functions of the Bureau of Engraving and Printing and the United 
States Mint without the explicit approval of the House Committee on 
Financial Services; the Senate Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban 
Affairs; and the Committees on Appropriations of the House of 
Representatives and the Senate.
    Sec. 120.  Funds appropriated by this Act, or made available by the 
transfer of funds in this Act, for the Department of the Treasury's 
intelligence or intelligence related activities are deemed to be 
specifically authorized by the Congress for purposes of section 504 of 
the National Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 414) during fiscal year 
2015 until the enactment of the Intelligence Authorization Act for 
Fiscal Year 2015.
    Sec. 121.  Not to exceed $5,000 shall be made available from the 
Bureau of Engraving and Printing's Industrial Revolving Fund for 
necessary official reception and representation expenses.
    Sec. 122.  The Secretary of the Treasury shall submit a Capital 
Investment Plan to the Committees on Appropriations of the Senate and 
the House of Representatives not later than 30 days following the 
submission of the annual budget submitted by the President: Provided, 
That such Capital Investment Plan shall include capital investment 
spending from all accounts within the Department of the Treasury, 
including but not limited to the Department-wide Systems and Capital 
Investment Programs account, Treasury Franchise Fund account, and the 
Treasury Forfeiture Fund account: Provided further, That such Capital 
Investment Plan shall include expenditures occurring in previous fiscal 
years for each capital investment project that has not been fully 
completed.
    Sec. 123. (a) Not later than 2 weeks after the end of each quarter, 
the Office of Financial Stability and the Office of Financial Research 
shall submit reports on their activities to the Committees on 
Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the Senate, the 
Committee on Financial Services of the House of Representatives and the 
Senate Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs.
    (b) The reports required under subsection (a) shall include--
            (1) the obligations made during the previous quarter by 
        object class, office, and activity;
            (2) the estimated obligations for the remainder of the 
        fiscal year by object class, office, and activity;
            (3) the number of full-time equivalents within each office 
        during the previous quarter;
            (4) the estimated number of full-time equivalents within 
        each office for the remainder of the fiscal year; and
            (5) actions taken to achieve the goals, objectives, and 
        performance measures of each office.
    (c) At the request of any such Committees specified in subsection 
(a), the Office of Financial Stability and the Office of Financial 
Research shall make officials available to testify on the contents of 
the reports required under subsection (a).
    Sec. 124.  Within 45 days after the date of enactment of this Act, 
the Secretary of the Treasury shall submit an itemized report to the 
Committees on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the 
Senate on the amount of total funds charged to each office by the 
Franchise Fund including the amount charged for each service provided 
by the Franchise Fund to each office, a detailed description of the 
services, a detailed explanation of how each charge for each service is 
calculated, and a description of the role customers have in governing 
in the Franchise Fund.
    Sec. 125. (a) Section 155 of Public Law 111-203 is amended as 
follows:
            (1) In subsection (b)--
                    (A) in paragraph (1)--
                            (i) by striking ``immediately''; and
                            (ii) by inserting ``as provided for in 
                        appropriations Acts'' after ``to the Office'';
                    (B) by striking paragraph (2); and
                    (C) by redesignating paragraph (3) as paragraph 
                (2).
            (2) In subsection (d), by striking the heading and 
        inserting ``Assessment Schedule.--''.
    (b) The amendments made by subsection (a) shall take effect on 
October 1, 2015.
    Sec. 126.  None of the funds made available in this Act may be used 
to approve, license, facilitate, authorize, or otherwise allow, whether 
by general or specific license, travel-related or other transactions 
incident to non-academic educational exchanges described in section 
515.565(b)(2) of title 31, Code of Federal Regulations.
    Sec. 127. (a) The Secretary of the Treasury and the Secretary of 
Homeland Security shall provide a joint report not later than 90 days 
after the enactment of this Act regarding travel pursuant to sections 
515.560(a)(1), 515.560(c)(4)(i), and 515.561 of title 31, Code of 
Federal Regulations.
    (b) Such report shall include, for each fiscal year beginning with 
2007 under the aforementioned category of travel--
            (1) number of travelers; average duration of stay for each 
        trip;
            (2) average amount of United States dollars spent per 
        traveler;
            (3) number of return trips per year; and
            (4) total sum of United States dollars spent collectively 
        in each fiscal year.
    Sec. 128.  During fiscal year 2015--
            (1) none of the funds made available in this or any other 
        Act may be used by the Department of the Treasury, including 
        the Internal Revenue Service, to issue, revise, or finalize any 
        regulation, revenue ruling, or other guidance not limited to a 
        particular taxpayer relating to the standard which is used to 
        determine whether an organization is operated exclusively for 
        the promotion of social welfare for purposes of section 
        501(c)(4) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (including the 
        proposed regulations published at 78 Fed. Reg. 71535 (November 
        29, 2013)); and
            (2) the standard and definitions as in effect on January 1, 
        2010, which are used to make such determinations shall apply 
        after the date of the enactment of this Act for purposes of 
        determining status under section 501(c)(4) of such Code of 
        organizations created on, before, or after such date.
    Sec. 129.  None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
available in this Act may be obligated or expended to provide for the 
enforcement of any rule, regulation, policy, or guideline implemented 
pursuant to the Department of the Treasury Guidance for United States 
Positions on MDBs Engaging with Developing Countries on Coal-Fired 
Power Generation dated October 29, 2013, when enforcement of such rule, 
regulation, policy, or guideline would prohibit, or have the effect of 
prohibiting, the carrying out of any coal-fired or other power-
generation project the purpose of which is to increase exports of goods 
and services from the United States or prevent the loss of jobs from 
the United States.
    Sec. 130.  The Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the 
appropriate agencies, departments, bureaus, and commissions that have 
expertise in terrorism and complex financial instruments, shall provide 
a report to the Committees on Appropriations of the House of 
Representatives and Senate, the Committee on Financial Services of the 
House of Representatives, and the Committee on Banking, Housing, and 
Urban Affairs of the Senate not later than 90 days after the date of 
enactment of this Act on economic warfare and financial terrorism.
    Sec. 131.  Each calendar month beginning after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of the Treasury shall submit to 
the Committees on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and 
the Senate, the Committee on Ways and Means of the House of 
Representatives, and the Committee on Finance of the Senate an 
accounting of the number of individuals who have not paid the full 
amount of any premium owed for the preceding month for coverage under a 
qualified health plan that was enrolled in through an Exchange under 
title I of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act.
    This title may be cited as the ``Department of the Treasury 
Appropriations Act, 2015''.

                                TITLE II

    EXECUTIVE OFFICE OF THE PRESIDENT AND FUNDS APPROPRIATED TO THE 
                               PRESIDENT

                            The White House

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses for the White House as authorized by law, 
including not to exceed $3,850,000 for services as authorized by 5 
U.S.C. 3109 and 3 U.S.C. 105; subsistence expenses as authorized by 3 
U.S.C. 105, which shall be expended and accounted for as provided in 
that section; hire of passenger motor vehicles, and travel (not to 
exceed $100,000 to be expended and accounted for as provided by 3 
U.S.C. 103); and not to exceed $19,000 for official reception and 
representation expenses, to be available for allocation within the 
Executive Office of the President; and for necessary expenses of the 
Office of Policy Development, including services as authorized by 5 
U.S.C. 3109 and 3 U.S.C. 107, $55,000,000.

                 Executive Residence at the White House

                           operating expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Executive Residence at the White 
House, $12,700,000, to be expended and accounted for as provided by 3 
U.S.C. 105, 109, 110, and 112-114.

                         reimbursable expenses

    For the reimbursable expenses of the Executive Residence at the 
White House, such sums as may be necessary: Provided, That all 
reimbursable operating expenses of the Executive Residence shall be 
made in accordance with the provisions of this paragraph: Provided 
further, That, notwithstanding any other provision of law, such amount 
for reimbursable operating expenses shall be the exclusive authority of 
the Executive Residence to incur obligations and to receive offsetting 
collections, for such expenses: Provided further, That the Executive 
Residence shall require each person sponsoring a reimbursable political 
event to pay in advance an amount equal to the estimated cost of the 
event, and all such advance payments shall be credited to this account 
and remain available until expended: Provided further, That the 
Executive Residence shall require the national committee of the 
political party of the President to maintain on deposit $25,000, to be 
separately accounted for and available for expenses relating to 
reimbursable political events sponsored by such committee during such 
fiscal year: Provided further, That the Executive Residence shall 
ensure that a written notice of any amount owed for a reimbursable 
operating expense under this paragraph is submitted to the person owing 
such amount within 60 days after such expense is incurred, and that 
such amount is collected within 30 days after the submission of such 
notice: Provided further, That the Executive Residence shall charge 
interest and assess penalties and other charges on any such amount that 
is not reimbursed within such 30 days, in accordance with the interest 
and penalty provisions applicable to an outstanding debt on a United 
States Government claim under 31 U.S.C. 3717: Provided further, That 
each such amount that is reimbursed, and any accompanying interest and 
charges, shall be deposited in the Treasury as miscellaneous receipts: 
Provided further, That the Executive Residence shall prepare and submit 
to the Committees on Appropriations, by not later than 90 days after 
the end of the fiscal year covered by this Act, a report setting forth 
the reimbursable operating expenses of the Executive Residence during 
the preceding fiscal year, including the total amount of such expenses, 
the amount of such total that consists of reimbursable official and 
ceremonial events, the amount of such total that consists of 
reimbursable political events, and the portion of each such amount that 
has been reimbursed as of the date of the report: Provided further, 
That the Executive Residence shall maintain a system for the tracking 
of expenses related to reimbursable events within the Executive 
Residence that includes a standard for the classification of any such 
expense as political or nonpolitical: Provided further, That no 
provision of this paragraph may be construed to exempt the Executive 
Residence from any other applicable requirement of subchapter I or II 
of chapter 37 of title 31, United States Code.

                   White House Repair and Restoration

    For the repair, alteration, and improvement of the Executive 
Residence at the White House pursuant to 3 U.S.C. 105(d), $500,000, to 
remain available until expended, for required maintenance, resolution 
of safety and health issues, and continued preventative maintenance.

                      Council of Economic Advisers

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Council of Economic Advisers in 
carrying out its functions under the Employment Act of 1946 (15 U.S.C. 
1021 et seq.), $3,765,000.

        National Security Council and Homeland Security Council

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the National Security Council and the 
Homeland Security Council, including services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 
3109, $12,600,000.

                        Office of Administration

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Administration, including 
services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109 and 3 U.S.C. 107, and hire of 
passenger motor vehicles, $111,000,000, of which not to exceed 
$12,006,000 shall remain available until expended for continued 
modernization of the information technology infrastructure within the 
Executive Office of the President.

                    Office of Management and Budget

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Management and Budget, 
including hire of passenger motor vehicles and services as authorized 
by 5 U.S.C. 3109, to carry out the provisions of chapter 35 of title 
44, United States Code, and to prepare and submit the budget of the 
United States Government, in accordance with section 1105(a) of title 
31, United States Code, $89,300,000, of which not to exceed $3,000 
shall be available for official representation expenses: Provided, That 
none of the funds appropriated in this Act for the Office of Management 
and Budget may be used for the purpose of reviewing any agricultural 
marketing orders or any activities or regulations under the provisions 
of the Agricultural Marketing Agreement Act of 1937 (7 U.S.C. 601 et 
seq.): Provided further, That none of the funds made available for the 
Office of Management and Budget by this Act may be expended for the 
altering of the transcript of actual testimony of witnesses, except for 
testimony of officials of the Office of Management and Budget, before 
the Committees on Appropriations or their subcommittees: Provided 
further, That none of the funds provided in this or prior Acts shall be 
used, directly or indirectly, by the Office of Management and Budget, 
for evaluating or determining if water resource project or study 
reports submitted by the Chief of Engineers acting through the 
Secretary of the Army are in compliance with all applicable laws, 
regulations, and requirements relevant to the Civil Works water 
resource planning process: Provided further, That the Office of 
Management and Budget shall have not more than 60 days in which to 
perform budgetary policy reviews of water resource matters on which the 
Chief of Engineers has reported: Provided further, That the Director of 
the Office of Management and Budget shall notify the appropriate 
authorizing and appropriating committees when the 60-day review is 
initiated: Provided further, That if water resource reports have not 
been transmitted to the appropriate authorizing and appropriating 
committees within 15 days after the end of the Office of Management and 
Budget review period based on the notification from the Director, 
Congress shall assume Office of Management and Budget concurrence with 
the report and act accordingly: Provided further, That the Director of 
the Office of Management and Budget shall: (1) consult with each 
standing committee in the House of Representatives and the Senate with 
respect to the number of printed and electronic copies (including the 
appendix, historical tables, and analytical perspectives) of the 
President's fiscal year 2016 budget request that each such committee 
requires; and (2) provide, using the funds made available under this 
heading, each such committee with the requisite number of copies by no 
later than the date that the President submits such budget to Congress 
pursuant to section 1105 of title 31, United States Code: Provided 
further, That of the amounts made available under this heading, 
$52,000,000 shall not be available for obligation until the President 
submits to Congress the budget of the United States Government for 
fiscal year 2016, in accordance with section 1105(a) of title 31, 
United States Code.

                 Office of National Drug Control Policy

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Office of National Drug Control 
Policy; for research activities pursuant to the Office of National Drug 
Control Policy Reauthorization Act of 2006 (Public Law 109-469); not to 
exceed $10,000 for official reception and representation expenses; and 
for participation in joint projects or in the provision of services on 
matters of mutual interest with nonprofit, research, or public 
organizations or agencies, with or without reimbursement, $22,000,000: 
Provided, That the Office is authorized to accept, hold, administer, 
and utilize gifts, both real and personal, public and private, without 
fiscal year limitation, for the purpose of aiding or facilitating the 
work of the Office.

                     federal drug control programs

             high intensity drug trafficking areas program

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For necessary expenses of the Office of National Drug Control 
Policy's High Intensity Drug Trafficking Areas Program, $245,000,000, 
to remain available until September 30, 2016, for drug control 
activities consistent with the approved strategy for each of the 
designated High Intensity Drug Trafficking Areas (``HIDTAs''), of which 
not less than 51 percent shall be transferred to State and local 
entities for drug control activities and shall be obligated not later 
than 120 days after enactment of this Act: Provided, That up to 49 
percent may be transferred to Federal agencies and departments in 
amounts determined by the Director of the Office of National Drug 
Control Policy, of which up to $2,700,000 may be used for auditing 
services and associated activities: Provided further, That, 
notwithstanding the requirements of Public Law 106-58, any unexpended 
funds obligated prior to fiscal year 2013 may be used for any other 
approved activities of that HIDTA, subject to reprogramming 
requirements: Provided further, That each HIDTA designated as of 
September 30, 2014, shall be funded at not less than the fiscal year 
2014 base level, unless the Director submits to the Committees on 
Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the Senate 
justification for changes to those levels based on clearly articulated 
priorities and published Office of National Drug Control Policy 
performance measures of effectiveness: Provided further, That the 
Director shall notify the Committees on Appropriations of the initial 
allocation of fiscal year 2015 funding among HIDTAs not later than 45 
days after enactment of this Act, and shall notify the Committees of 
planned uses of discretionary HIDTA funding, as determined in 
consultation with the HIDTA Directors, not later than 90 days after 
enactment of this Act.

                  other federal drug control programs

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For other drug control activities authorized by the Office of 
National Drug Control Policy Reauthorization Act of 2006 (Public Law 
109-469), $108,250,000, to remain available until expended, which shall 
be available as follows: $95,000,000 for the Drug-Free Communities 
Program, of which $2,000,000 shall be made available as directed by 
section 4 of Public Law 107-82, as amended by Public Law 109-469 (21 
U.S.C. 1521 note); $1,400,000 for drug court training and technical 
assistance; $8,600,000 for anti-doping activities; $2,000,000 for the 
United States membership dues to the World Anti-Doping Agency; and 
$1,250,000 shall be made available as directed by section 1105 of 
Public Law 109-469: Provided, That amounts made available under this 
heading may be transferred to other Federal departments and agencies to 
carry out such activities.

              Information Technology Oversight and Reform

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For necessary expenses for the furtherance of integrated, 
efficient, secure, and effective uses of information technology in the 
Federal Government, $9,000,000, to remain available until expended:  
Provided, That the Director of the Office of Management and Budget may 
transfer these funds to one or more other agencies to carry out 
projects to meet these purposes:  Provided further, That the Director 
of the Office of Management and Budget shall submit quarterly reports 
not later than 45 days after the end of each quarter to the Committees 
on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the Senate and 
the Government Accountability Office identifying the savings achieved 
by the Office of Management and Budget's government-wide information 
technology reform efforts:  Provided further, That such reports shall 
include savings identified by fiscal year, agency, and appropriation.

                  Special Assistance to the President

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses to enable the Vice President to provide 
assistance to the President in connection with specially assigned 
functions; services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109 and 3 U.S.C. 106, 
including subsistence expenses as authorized by 3 U.S.C. 106, which 
shall be expended and accounted for as provided in that section; and 
hire of passenger motor vehicles, $4,200,000.

                Official Residence of the Vice President

                           operating expenses

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For the care, operation, refurnishing, improvement, and to the 
extent not otherwise provided for, heating and lighting, including 
electric power and fixtures, of the official residence of the Vice 
President; the hire of passenger motor vehicles; and not to exceed 
$81,000 pursuant to 3 U.S.C. 106(b)(2), $290,000: Provided, That 
advances, repayments, or transfers from this appropriation may be made 
to any department or agency for expenses of carrying out such 
activities.

Administrative Provisions--Executive Office of the President and Funds 
                     Appropriated to the President

                     (including transfer of funds)

    Sec. 201.  From funds made available in this Act under the headings 
``The White House'', ``Executive Residence at the White House'', 
``White House Repair and Restoration'', ``Council of Economic 
Advisers'', ``National Security Council and Homeland Security 
Council'', ``Office of Administration'', ``Special Assistance to the 
President'', and ``Official Residence of the Vice President'', the 
Director of the Office of Management and Budget (or such other officer 
as the President may designate in writing), may, with advance approval 
of the Committees on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and 
the Senate, transfer not to exceed 10 percent of any such appropriation 
to any other such appropriation, to be merged with and available for 
the same time and for the same purposes as the appropriation to which 
transferred: Provided, That the amount of an appropriation shall not be 
increased by more than 50 percent by such transfers: Provided further, 
That no amount shall be transferred from ``Special Assistance to the 
President'' or ``Official Residence of the Vice President'' without the 
approval of the Vice President.
    Sec. 202.  Within 90 days after the date of enactment of this 
section, the Director of the Office of Management and Budget shall 
submit a report to the Committees on Appropriations of the House of 
Representatives and the Senate on the costs of implementing the Dodd-
Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (Public Law 111-
203). Such report shall include--
            (1) the estimated mandatory and discretionary obligations 
        of funds through fiscal year 2019, by Federal agency and by 
        fiscal year, including--
                    (A) the estimated obligations by cost inputs such 
                as rent, information technology, contracts, and 
                personnel;
                    (B) the methodology and data sources used to 
                calculate such estimated obligations; and
                    (C) the specific section of such Act that requires 
                the obligation of funds; and
            (2) the estimated receipts through fiscal year 2019 from 
        assessments, user fees, and other fees by the Federal agency 
        making the collections, by fiscal year, including--
                    (A) the methodology and data sources used to 
                calculate such estimated collections; and
                    (B) the specific section of such Act that 
                authorizes the collection of funds.
    Sec. 203.  None of funds made available in this Act may be used to 
pay the salaries and expenses of any officer or employee of the 
Executive Office of the President to prepare, sign, or approve 
statements abrogating legislation passed by the House of 
Representatives and the Senate and signed by the President.
    Sec. 204.  None of the funds made available by this Act may be used 
to pay the salaries and expenses of any officer or employee of the 
Executive Office of the President to prepare or implement an Executive 
order that contravenes existing law.
    Sec. 205. (a) During fiscal year 2015, any Executive order issued 
by the President shall include a statement from the Director of the 
Office of Management and Budget on the budgetary impact of the 
Executive order.
    (b) Any such statement shall include--
            (1) a narrative summary of the costs and revenue impacts of 
        such order on the Federal Government;
            (2) the impact on mandatory and discretionary obligations 
        and outlays, listed by Federal agency, for each year in the 5-
        fiscal year period beginning in fiscal year 2015; and
            (3) the impact on revenues of the Federal Government over 
        the 5-fiscal year period beginning in fiscal year 2015.
    (c) If an Executive order is issued during fiscal year 2015 due to 
a national emergency, the Director of the Office of Management and 
Budget may issue the statement required by subsection (a) not later 
than 15 days after the date that the Executive order is issued.
    This title may be cited as the ``Executive Office of the President 
Appropriations Act, 2015''.

                               TITLE III

                             THE JUDICIARY

                   Supreme Court of the United States

                         salaries and expenses

    For expenses necessary for the operation of the Supreme Court, as 
required by law, excluding care of the building and grounds, including 
hire of passenger motor vehicles as authorized by 31 U.S.C. 1343 and 
1344; not to exceed $10,000 for official reception and representation 
expenses; and for miscellaneous expenses, to be expended as the Chief 
Justice may approve, $74,937,000, of which $2,000,000 shall remain 
available until expended.
    In addition, there are appropriated such sums as may be necessary 
under current law for the salaries of the chief justice and associate 
justices of the court.

                    care of the building and grounds

    For such expenditures as may be necessary to enable the Architect 
of the Capitol to carry out the duties imposed upon the Architect by 40 
U.S.C. 6111 and 6112, $11,640,000, to remain available until expended.

         United States Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit

                         salaries and expenses

    For salaries of officers and employees, and for necessary expenses 
of the court, as authorized by law, $30,192,000.
    In addition, there are appropriated such sums as may be necessary 
under current law for the salaries of the chief judge and judges of the 
court.

               United States Court of International Trade

                         salaries and expenses

    For salaries of officers and employees of the court, services, and 
necessary expenses of the court, as authorized by law, $17,807,000.
    In addition, there are appropriated such sums as may be necessary 
under current law for the salaries of the chief judge and judges of the 
court.

    Courts of Appeals, District Courts, and Other Judicial Services

                         salaries and expenses

    For the salaries of judges of the United States Court of Federal 
Claims, magistrate judges, and all other officers and employees of the 
Federal Judiciary not otherwise specifically provided for, necessary 
expenses of the courts, and the purchase, rental, repair, and cleaning 
of uniforms for Probation and Pretrial Services Office staff, as 
authorized by law, $4,784,659,000 (increased by $42,000,000) (including 
the purchase of firearms and ammunition); of which not to exceed 
$27,817,000 shall remain available until expended for space alteration 
projects and for costs related to new space alteration and construction 
projects; and of which not to exceed $10,000,000 shall remain available 
until September 30, 2016, for the Integrated Workplace Initiative: 
Provided, That the amount provided for the Integrated Workplace 
Initiative shall not be available for obligation until the Director of 
the Administrative Office of the United States Courts submits a report 
to the Committees on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and 
the Senate showing that the estimated cost savings resulting from the 
Initiative will exceed the estimated amounts obligated for the 
Initiative.
    In addition, there are appropriated such sums as may be necessary 
under current law for the salaries of circuit and district judges 
(including judges of the territorial courts of the United States), 
bankruptcy judges, and justices and judges retired from office or from 
regular active service.
    In addition, for expenses of the United States Court of Federal 
Claims associated with processing cases under the National Childhood 
Vaccine Injury Act of 1986 (Public Law 99-660), not to exceed 
$5,423,000, to be appropriated from the Vaccine Injury Compensation 
Trust Fund.

                           defender services

    For the operation of Federal Defender organizations; the 
compensation and reimbursement of expenses of attorneys appointed to 
represent persons under 18 U.S.C. 3006A and 3599, and for the 
compensation and reimbursement of expenses of persons furnishing 
investigative, expert, and other services for such representations as 
authorized by law; the compensation (in accordance with the maximums 
under 18 U.S.C. 3006A) and reimbursement of expenses of attorneys 
appointed to assist the court in criminal cases where the defendant has 
waived representation by counsel; the compensation and reimbursement of 
expenses of attorneys appointed to represent jurors in civil actions 
for the protection of their employment, as authorized by 28 U.S.C. 
1875(d)(1); the compensation and reimbursement of expenses of attorneys 
appointed under 18 U.S.C. 983(b)(1) in connection with certain judicial 
civil forfeiture proceedings; the compensation and reimbursement of 
travel expenses of guardians ad litem appointed under 18 U.S.C. 
4100(b); and for necessary training and general administrative 
expenses, $1,044,394,000, to remain available until expended.

                    fees of jurors and commissioners

    For fees and expenses of jurors as authorized by 28 U.S.C. 1871 and 
1876; compensation of jury commissioners as authorized by 28 U.S.C. 
1863; and compensation of commissioners appointed in condemnation cases 
pursuant to rule 71.1(h) of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure (28 
U.S.C. Appendix Rule 71.1(h)), $55,827,000, to remain available until 
expended: Provided, That the compensation of land commissioners shall 
not exceed the daily equivalent of the highest rate payable under 5 
U.S.C. 5332.

                             court security

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For necessary expenses, not otherwise provided for, incident to the 
provision of protective guard services for United States courthouses 
and other facilities housing Federal court operations, and the 
procurement, installation, and maintenance of security systems and 
equipment for United States courthouses and other facilities housing 
Federal court operations, including building ingress-egress control, 
inspection of mail and packages, directed security patrols, perimeter 
security, basic security services provided by the Federal Protective 
Service, and other similar activities as authorized by section 1010 of 
the Judicial Improvement and Access to Justice Act (Public Law 100-
702), $525,763,000, of which not to exceed $15,000,000 shall remain 
available until expended, to be expended directly or transferred to the 
United States Marshals Service, which shall be responsible for 
administering the Judicial Facility Security Program consistent with 
standards or guidelines agreed to by the Director of the Administrative 
Office of the United States Courts and the Attorney General.

           Administrative Office of the United States Courts

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Administrative Office of the United 
States Courts as authorized by law, including travel as authorized by 
31 U.S.C. 1345, hire of a passenger motor vehicle as authorized by 31 
U.S.C. 1343(b), advertising and rent in the District of Columbia and 
elsewhere, $82,824,000, of which not to exceed $8,500 is authorized for 
official reception and representation expenses.

                        Federal Judicial Center

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Federal Judicial Center, as 
authorized by Public Law 90-219, $26,724,000; of which $1,800,000 shall 
remain available through September 30, 2016, to provide education and 
training to Federal court personnel; and of which not to exceed $1,500 
is authorized for official reception and representation expenses.

                  United States Sentencing Commission

                         salaries and expenses

    For the salaries and expenses necessary to carry out the provisions 
of chapter 58 of title 28, United States Code, $16,556,000, of which 
not to exceed $1,000 is authorized for official reception and 
representation expenses.

                Administrative Provisions--The Judiciary

                     (including transfer of funds)

    Sec. 301.  Appropriations and authorizations made in this title 
which are available for salaries and expenses shall be available for 
services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109.
    Sec. 302.  Not to exceed 5 percent of any appropriation made 
available for the current fiscal year for the Judiciary in this Act may 
be transferred between such appropriations, but no such appropriation, 
except ``Courts of Appeals, District Courts, and Other Judicial 
Services, Defender Services'' and ``Courts of Appeals, District Courts, 
and Other Judicial Services, Fees of Jurors and Commissioners'', shall 
be increased by more than 10 percent by any such transfers: Provided, 
That any transfer pursuant to this section shall be treated as a 
reprogramming of funds under sections 604 and 608 of this Act and shall 
not be available for obligation or expenditure except in compliance 
with the procedures set forth in section 608.
    Sec. 303.  Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the salaries 
and expenses appropriation for ``Courts of Appeals, District Courts, 
and Other Judicial Services'' shall be available for official reception 
and representation expenses of the Judicial Conference of the United 
States: Provided, That such available funds shall not exceed $11,000 
and shall be administered by the Director of the Administrative Office 
of the United States Courts in the capacity as Secretary of the 
Judicial Conference.
    Sec. 304.  Section 3314(a) of title 40, United States Code, shall 
be applied by substituting ``Federal'' for ``executive'' each place it 
appears.
    Sec. 305.  In accordance with 28 U.S.C. 561-569, and 
notwithstanding any other provision of law, the United States Marshals 
Service shall provide, for such courthouses as its Director may 
designate in consultation with the Director of the Administrative 
Office of the United States Courts, for purposes of a pilot program, 
the security services that 40 U.S.C. 1315 authorizes the Department of 
Homeland Security to provide, except for the services specified in 40 
U.S.C. 1315(b)(2)(E). For building-specific security services at these 
courthouses, the Director of the Administrative Office of the United 
States Courts shall reimburse the United States Marshals Service rather 
than the Department of Homeland Security.
    Sec. 306. (a) Section 203(c) of the Judicial Improvements Act of 
1990 (Public Law 101-650; 28 U.S.C. 133 note), is amended in the second 
sentence (relating to the District of Kansas) following paragraph (12), 
by striking ``23 years and 6 months'' and inserting ``24 years and 6 
months''.
    (b) Section 406 of the Transportation, Treasury, Housing and Urban 
Development, the Judiciary, the District of Columbia, and Independent 
Agencies Appropriations Act, 2006 (Public Law 109-115; 119 Stat. 2470; 
28 U.S.C. 133 note) is amended in the second sentence (relating to the 
eastern District of Missouri) by striking ``21 years and 6 months'' and 
inserting ``22 years and 6 months''.
    (c) Section 312(c)(2) of the 21st Century Department of Justice 
Appropriations Authorization Act (Public Law 107-273; 28 U.S.C. 133 
note), is amended--
            (1) in the first sentence by striking ``12 years'' and 
        inserting ``13 years'';
            (2) in the second sentence (relating to the central 
        District of California), by striking ``11 years and 6 months'' 
        and inserting ``12 years and 6 months''; and
            (3) in the third sentence (relating to the western District 
        of North Carolina), by striking ``10 years'' and inserting ``11 
        years''.
    Sec. 307.  Section 84(b) of title 28, United States Code, is 
amended in the second sentence by inserting ``Bakersfield,'' after 
``shall be held at''.
    This title may be cited as the ``Judiciary Appropriations Act, 
2015''.

                                TITLE IV

                          DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA

                             Federal Funds

              federal payment for resident tuition support

    For a Federal payment to the District of Columbia, to be deposited 
into a dedicated account, for a nationwide program to be administered 
by the Mayor, for District of Columbia resident tuition support, 
$20,000,000, to remain available until expended: Provided, That such 
funds, including any interest accrued thereon, may be used on behalf of 
eligible District of Columbia residents to pay an amount based upon the 
difference between in-State and out-of-State tuition at public 
institutions of higher education, or to pay up to $2,500 each year at 
eligible private institutions of higher education: Provided further, 
That the awarding of such funds may be prioritized on the basis of a 
resident's academic merit, the income and need of eligible students and 
such other factors as may be authorized: Provided further, That the 
District of Columbia government shall maintain a dedicated account for 
the Resident Tuition Support Program that shall consist of the Federal 
funds appropriated to the Program in this Act and any subsequent 
appropriations, any unobligated balances from prior fiscal years, and 
any interest earned in this or any fiscal year: Provided further, That 
the account shall be under the control of the District of Columbia 
Chief Financial Officer, who shall use those funds solely for the 
purposes of carrying out the Resident Tuition Support Program: Provided 
further, That the Office of the Chief Financial Officer shall provide a 
quarterly financial report to the Committees on Appropriations of the 
House of Representatives and the Senate for these funds showing, by 
object class, the expenditures made and the purpose therefor.

   federal payment for emergency planning and security costs in the 
                          district of columbia

    For a Federal payment of necessary expenses, as determined by the 
Mayor of the District of Columbia in written consultation with the 
elected county or city officials of surrounding jurisdictions, 
$10,000,000, to remain available until expended, for the costs of 
providing public safety at events related to the presence of the 
National Capital in the District of Columbia, including support 
requested by the Director of the United States Secret Service in 
carrying out protective duties under the direction of the Secretary of 
Homeland Security, and for the costs of providing support to respond to 
immediate and specific terrorist threats or attacks in the District of 
Columbia or surrounding jurisdictions.

           federal payment to the district of columbia courts

    For salaries and expenses for the District of Columbia Courts, 
$234,400,000 to be allocated as follows: for the District of Columbia 
Court of Appeals, $13,400,000, of which not to exceed $2,500 is for 
official reception and representation expenses; for the Superior Court 
of the District of Columbia, $115,000,000, of which not to exceed 
$2,500 is for official reception and representation expenses; for the 
District of Columbia Court System, $70,000,000, of which not to exceed 
$2,500 is for official reception and representation expenses; and 
$36,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 2016, for capital 
improvements for District of Columbia courthouse facilities: Provided, 
That funds made available for capital improvements shall be expended 
consistent with the District of Columbia Courts master plan study and 
facilities condition assessment: Provided further, That notwithstanding 
any other provision of law, all amounts under this heading shall be 
apportioned quarterly by the Office of Management and Budget and 
obligated and expended in the same manner as funds appropriated for 
salaries and expenses of other Federal agencies: Provided further, 
That, 30 days after providing written notice to the Committees on 
Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the Senate, the 
District of Columbia Courts may reallocate not more than $6,000,000 of 
the funds provided under this heading among the items and entities 
funded under this heading: Provided further, That, the Joint Committee 
on Judicial Administration in the District of Columbia may, by 
regulation, establish a program substantially similar to the program 
set forth in subchapter II of chapter 35 of title 5, United States 
Code, for employees of the District of Columbia Courts.

  federal payment for defender services in district of columbia courts

    For payments authorized under section 11-2604 and section 11-2605, 
D.C. Official Code (relating to representation provided under the 
District of Columbia Criminal Justice Act), payments for counsel 
appointed in proceedings in the Family Court of the Superior Court of 
the District of Columbia under chapter 23 of title 16, D.C. Official 
Code, or pursuant to contractual agreements to provide guardian ad 
litem representation, training, technical assistance, and such other 
services as are necessary to improve the quality of guardian ad litem 
representation, payments for counsel appointed in adoption proceedings 
under chapter 3 of title 16, D.C. Official Code, and payments 
authorized under section 21-2060, D.C. Official Code (relating to 
services provided under the District of Columbia Guardianship, 
Protective Proceedings, and Durable Power of Attorney Act of 1986), 
$49,890,000, to remain available until expended: Provided, That funds 
provided under this heading shall be administered by the Joint 
Committee on Judicial Administration in the District of Columbia: 
Provided further, That, notwithstanding any other provision of law, 
this appropriation shall be apportioned quarterly by the Office of 
Management and Budget and obligated and expended in the same manner as 
funds appropriated for expenses of other Federal agencies.

 federal payment to the court services and offender supervision agency 
                      for the district of columbia

    For salaries and expenses, including the transfer and hire of motor 
vehicles, of the Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency for the 
District of Columbia, as authorized by the National Capital 
Revitalization and Self-Government Improvement Act of 1997, 
$228,500,000, of which not to exceed $2,000 is for official reception 
and representation expenses related to Community Supervision and 
Pretrial Services Agency program, of which not to exceed $25,000 is for 
dues and assessments relating to the implementation of the Court 
Services and Offender Supervision Agency Interstate Supervision Act of 
2002; of which $169,000,000 shall be for necessary expenses of 
Community Supervision and Sex Offender Registration, to include 
expenses relating to the supervision of adults subject to protection 
orders or the provision of services for or related to such persons, of 
which up to $6,990,000 shall remain available until September 30, 2017, 
for the relocation of an offender supervision field office; and of 
which $59,500,000 shall be available to the Pretrial Services Agency: 
Provided, That notwithstanding any other provision of law, all amounts 
under this heading shall be apportioned quarterly by the Office of 
Management and Budget and obligated and expended in the same manner as 
funds appropriated for salaries and expenses of other Federal agencies: 
Provided further, That amounts under this heading may be used for 
programmatic incentives for offenders and defendants successfully 
meeting terms of supervision: Provided further, That the Director is 
authorized to accept and use gifts in the form of in-kind contributions 
of the following: space and hospitality to support offender and 
defendant programs; equipment, supplies, and vocational training 
services necessary to sustain, educate, and train offenders and 
defendants, including their dependent children; and programmatic 
incentives for offenders and defendants meeting terms of supervision: 
Provided further, That the Director shall keep accurate and detailed 
records of the acceptance and use of any gift under the previous 
proviso, and shall make such records available for audit and public 
inspection: Provided further, That the Court Services and Offender 
Supervision Agency Director is authorized to accept and use 
reimbursement from the District of Columbia Government for space and 
services provided on a cost reimbursable basis.

  federal payment to the district of columbia public defender service

    For salaries and expenses, including the transfer and hire of motor 
vehicles, of the District of Columbia Public Defender Service, as 
authorized by the National Capital Revitalization and Self-Government 
Improvement Act of 1997, $41,000,000: Provided, That, notwithstanding 
any other provision of law, all amounts under this heading shall be 
apportioned quarterly by the Office of Management and Budget and 
obligated and expended in the same manner as funds appropriated for 
salaries and expenses of Federal agencies: Provided further, That, 
notwithstanding section 1342 of title 31, United States Code, and in 
addition to the authority provided by section 307(b) of the District of 
Columbia Court Reform and Criminal Procedure Act (sec. 2-1607(b), D.C. 
Official Code), upon approval of the Board of Trustees of the District 
of Columbia Public Defender Service, the District of Columbia Public 
Defender Service may accept and use voluntary and uncompensated 
services for the purpose of aiding or facilitating the work of the 
District of Columbia Public Defender Service.

      federal payment to the criminal justice coordinating council

    For a Federal payment to the Criminal Justice Coordinating Council, 
$1,900,000, to remain available until expended, to support initiatives 
related to the coordination of Federal and local criminal justice 
resources in the District of Columbia.

                federal payment for judicial commissions

    For a Federal payment, to remain available until September 30, 
2016, to the Commission on Judicial Disabilities and Tenure, $295,000, 
and for the Judicial Nomination Commission, $255,000.

                 federal payment for school improvement

    For a Federal payment for a school improvement program in the 
District of Columbia, $45,000,000, to remain available until expended, 
for payments authorized under the Scholarship for Opportunity and 
Results Act (division C of Public Law 112-10): Provided, That, to the 
extent that funds are available for opportunity scholarships and 
following the priorities included in section 3006 of such Act, the 
Secretary of Education shall make scholarships available to students 
eligible under section 3013(3) of such Act (Public Law 112-10; 125 
Stat. 211) including students who were not offered a scholarship during 
any previous school year: Provided further, That within funds provided 
for opportunity scholarships $3,000,000 shall be for the activities 
specified in sections 3007(b) through 3007(d) and 3009 of the Act.

      federal payment for the district of columbia national guard

    For a Federal payment to the District of Columbia National Guard, 
$375,000, to remain available until expended for the Major General 
David F. Wherley, Jr. District of Columbia National Guard Retention and 
College Access Program.

         federal payment for testing and treatment of hiv/aids

    For a Federal payment to the District of Columbia for the testing 
of individuals for, and the treatment of individuals with, human 
immunodeficiency virus and acquired immunodeficiency syndrome in the 
District of Columbia, $5,000,000.

                       District of Columbia Funds

    Local funds are appropriated for the District of Columbia for the 
current fiscal year out of the General Fund of the District of Columbia 
(``General Fund'') for programs and activities set forth under the 
heading ``District of Columbia Funds Summary of Expenses'' and at the 
rate set forth under such heading, as included in the Fiscal Year 2015 
Budget Request Act of 2014 submitted to the Congress by the District of 
Columbia as amended as of the date of enactment of this Act: Provided, 
That notwithstanding any other provision of law, except as provided in 
section 450A of the District of Columbia Home Rule Act (section 1-
204.50a, D.C. Official Code), sections 816 and 817 of the Financial 
Services and General Government Appropriations Act, 2009 (secs. 47-
369.01 and 47-369.02, D.C. Official Code), and provisions of this Act, 
the total amount appropriated in this Act for operating expenses for 
the District of Columbia for fiscal year 2015 under this heading shall 
not exceed the estimates included in the Fiscal Year 2015 Budget 
Request Act of 2014 submitted to Congress by the District of Columbia 
as amended as of the date of enactment of this Act or the sum of the 
total revenues of the District of Columbia for such fiscal year: 
Provided further, That the amount appropriated may be increased by 
proceeds of one-time transactions, which are expended for emergency or 
unanticipated operating or capital needs: Provided further, That such 
increases shall be approved by enactment of local District law and 
shall comply with all reserve requirements contained in the District of 
Columbia Home Rule Act: Provided further, That the Chief Financial 
Officer of the District of Columbia shall take such steps as are 
necessary to assure that the District of Columbia meets these 
requirements, including the apportioning by the Chief Financial Officer 
of the appropriations and funds made available to the District during 
fiscal year 2015, except that the Chief Financial Officer may not 
reprogram for operating expenses any funds derived from bonds, notes, 
or other obligations issued for capital projects.
    This title may be cited as the ``District of Columbia 
Appropriations Act, 2015''.

                                TITLE V

                          INDEPENDENT AGENCIES

             Administrative Conference of the United States

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Administrative Conference of the 
United States, authorized by 5 U.S.C. 591 et seq., $3,000,000, to 
remain available until September 30, 2016, of which not to exceed 
$1,000 is for official reception and representation expenses.

                Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection

                       administrative provisions

    Sec. 501.  Section 1017(a)(2)(C) of Public Law 111-203 is repealed.
    Sec. 502.  Effective October 1, 2015, notwithstanding section 1017 
of Public Law 111-203--
            (1) the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
        shall not transfer amounts specified under such section to the 
        Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection; and
            (2) there are authorized to be appropriated to the Bureau 
        of Consumer Financial Protection such sums as may be necessary 
        to carry out the authorities of the Bureau under Federal 
        consumer financial law.
    Sec. 503. (a) During fiscal year 2015, on the date that a request 
is made for a transfer of funds in accordance with section 1017 of 
Public Law 111-203, the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection shall 
notify Committees on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and 
the Senate, the Committee on Financial Services of the House of 
Representatives, and the Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban 
Affairs of the Senate of such requests.
    (b)(1) Any such notification shall include the amount of the funds 
requested, an explanation of how the funds will be obligated by object 
class and activity, and why the funds are necessary to protect 
consumers.
    (2) Any notification required by this section shall be made 
available on the Bureau's public website.
    Sec. 504. (a) Not later than 2 weeks after the end of each quarter 
of each fiscal year, the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection shall 
submit a report on its activities to the Committees on Appropriations 
of the House of Representatives and the Senate, the Committee on 
Financial Services of the House of Representatives, and the Committee 
on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs of the Senate.
    (b) The reports required under subsection (a) shall include--
            (1) the obligations made during the previous quarter by 
        object class, office, and activity;
            (2) the estimated obligations for the remainder of the 
        fiscal year by object class, office, and activity;
            (3) the number of full-time equivalents within each office 
        during the previous quarter;
            (4) the estimated number of full-time equivalents within 
        each office for the remainder of the fiscal year; and
            (5) actions taken to achieve the goals, objectives, and 
        performance measures of each office.
    (c) At the request of any such committee specified in subsection 
(a), the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection shall make Bureau 
officials available to testify on the contents of the reports required 
under subsection (a).

                   Consumer Product Safety Commission

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Consumer Product Safety Commission, 
including hire of passenger motor vehicles, services as authorized by 5 
U.S.C. 3109, but at rates for individuals not to exceed the per diem 
rate equivalent to the maximum rate payable under 5 U.S.C. 5376, and 
not to exceed $4,000 for official reception and representation 
expenses, $118,000,000 (increased by $1,000,000).

                   Federal Communications Commission

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Federal Communications Commission, as 
authorized by law, including uniforms and allowances therefor, as 
authorized by 5 U.S.C. 5901-5902; not to exceed $4,000 for official 
reception and representation expenses; purchase and hire of motor 
vehicles; special counsel fees; and services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 
3109, $322,748,000, to remain available until expended: Provided, That 
$322,748,000 of offsetting collections shall be assessed and collected 
pursuant to section 9 of title I of the Communications Act of 1934, 
shall be retained and used for necessary expenses and shall remain 
available until expended: Provided further, That the sum herein 
appropriated shall be reduced as such offsetting collections are 
received during fiscal year 2015 so as to result in a final fiscal year 
2015 appropriation estimated at $0: Provided further, That any 
offsetting collections received in excess of $322,748,000 in fiscal 
year 2015 shall not be available for obligation: Provided further, That 
remaining offsetting collections from prior years collected in excess 
of the amount specified for collection in each such year and otherwise 
becoming available on October 1, 2014, shall not be available for 
obligation: Provided further, That notwithstanding 47 U.S.C. 
309(j)(8)(B), proceeds from the use of a competitive bidding system 
that may be retained and made available for obligation shall not exceed 
$106,000,000 for fiscal year 2015: Provided further, That of the amount 
appropriated under this heading, not less than $11,090,000 shall be for 
the salaries and expenses of the Office of Inspector General.

                 Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation

                    office of the inspector general

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Inspector General in 
carrying out the provisions of the Inspector General Act of 1978, 
$34,568,000, to be derived from the Deposit Insurance Fund or, only 
when appropriate, the FSLIC Resolution Fund.

                      Federal Election Commission

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of the Federal 
Election Campaign Act of 1971, $67,500,000, of which not to exceed 
$5,000 shall be available for reception and representation expenses.

                   Federal Labor Relations Authority

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses to carry out functions of the Federal Labor 
Relations Authority, pursuant to Reorganization Plan Numbered 2 of 
1978, and the Civil Service Reform Act of 1978, including services 
authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, and including hire of experts and 
consultants, hire of passenger motor vehicles, and including official 
reception and representation expenses (not to exceed $1,500) and rental 
of conference rooms in the District of Columbia and elsewhere, 
$25,500,000: Provided, That public members of the Federal Service 
Impasses Panel may be paid travel expenses and per diem in lieu of 
subsistence as authorized by law (5 U.S.C. 5703) for persons employed 
intermittently in the Government service, and compensation as 
authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109: Provided further, That, notwithstanding 31 
U.S.C. 3302, funds received from fees charged to non-Federal 
participants at labor-management relations conferences shall be 
credited to and merged with this account, to be available without 
further appropriation for the costs of carrying out these conferences.

                        Federal Trade Commission

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Federal Trade Commission, including 
uniforms or allowances therefor, as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 5901-5902; 
services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109; hire of passenger motor 
vehicles; and not to exceed $2,000 for official reception and 
representation expenses, $293,000,000, to remain available until 
expended: Provided, That not to exceed $300,000 shall be available for 
use to contract with a person or persons for collection services in 
accordance with the terms of 31 U.S.C. 3718: Provided further, That, 
notwithstanding any other provision of law, not to exceed $100,000,000 
of offsetting collections derived from fees collected for premerger 
notification filings under the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements 
Act of 1976 (15 U.S.C. 18a), regardless of the year of collection, 
shall be retained and used for necessary expenses in this 
appropriation: Provided further, That, notwithstanding any other 
provision of law, not to exceed $14,000,000 in offsetting collections 
derived from fees sufficient to implement and enforce the Telemarketing 
Sales Rule, promulgated under the Telemarketing and Consumer Fraud and 
Abuse Prevention Act (15 U.S.C. 6101 et seq.), shall be credited to 
this account, and be retained and used for necessary expenses in this 
appropriation: Provided further, That the sum herein appropriated from 
the general fund shall be reduced as such offsetting collections are 
received during fiscal year 2015, so as to result in a final fiscal 
year 2015 appropriation from the general fund estimated at not more 
than $179,000,000: Provided further, That none of the funds made 
available to the Federal Trade Commission may be used to implement 
subsection (e)(2)(B) of section 43 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act 
(12 U.S.C. 1831t).

                    General Services Administration

                        real property activities

                         federal buildings fund

                 limitations on availability of revenue

                     (including transfers of funds)

    Amounts in the Fund, including revenues and collections deposited 
into the Fund shall be available for necessary expenses of real 
property management and related activities not otherwise provided for, 
including operation, maintenance, and protection of federally owned and 
leased buildings; rental of buildings in the District of Columbia; 
restoration of leased premises; moving governmental agencies (including 
space adjustments and telecommunications relocation expenses) in 
connection with the assignment, allocation and transfer of space; 
contractual services incident to cleaning or servicing buildings, and 
moving; repair and alteration of federally owned buildings including 
grounds, approaches and appurtenances; care and safeguarding of sites; 
maintenance, preservation, demolition, and equipment; acquisition of 
buildings and sites by purchase, condemnation, or as otherwise 
authorized by law; acquisition of options to purchase buildings and 
sites; conversion and extension of federally owned buildings; 
preliminary planning and design of projects by contract or otherwise; 
construction of new buildings (including equipment for such buildings); 
and payment of principal, interest, and any other obligations for 
public buildings acquired by installment purchase and purchase 
contract; in the aggregate amount of $9,130,409,000 (reduced by 
$3,339,000) (reduced by $43,000,000), of which--
            (1) $420,460,000 shall remain available until expended for 
        construction and acquisition (including funds for sites and 
        expenses, and associated design and construction services) of 
        additional projects at--
                    (A) California, Calexico, Calexico West Land Port 
                of Entry, $98,062,000;
                    (B) California, San Diego, San Ysidro Land Port of 
                Entry, $216,828,000; and
                    (C) New York, Alexandria Bay, Land Port of Entry, 
                $105,570,000:
 Provided, That each of the foregoing limits of costs on new 
construction and acquisition projects may be exceeded to the extent 
that savings are effected in other such projects, but not to exceed 10 
percent of the amounts included in a transmitted prospectus, if 
required, unless advance approval is obtained from the Committees on 
Appropriations of a greater amount;
            (2) $965,817,000 (reduced by $1,669,500) shall remain 
        available until expended for repairs and alterations, including 
        associated design and construction services, of which--
                    (A) $402,282,000 is for Major Repairs and 
                Alterations;
                    (B) $378,535,000 (reduced by $1,669,500) is for 
                Basic Repairs and Alterations; and
                    (C) $185,000,000 is for Special Emphasis Programs, 
                of which--
                            (i) $40,000,000 is for Fire and Life 
                        Safety;
                            (ii) $100,000,000 is for Consolidation 
                        Activities: Provided, That consolidation 
                        projects result in reduced annual rent paid by 
                        the tenant agency: Provided further, That no 
                        consolidation project exceed $10,000,000 in 
                        costs: Provided further, That consolidation 
                        projects are approved by each of the committees 
                        specified in section 3307(a) of title 40, 
                        United States Code: Provided further, That 
                        preference is given to consolidation projects 
                        that achieve a utilization rate of 130 usable 
                        square feet or less per person for office 
                        space: Provided further, That the obligation of 
                        funds under this paragraph for consolidation 
                        activities may not be made until 10 days after 
                        a proposed spending plan and explanation for 
                        each project to be undertaken, including 
                        estimated savings, has been submitted to the 
                        Committees on Appropriations of the House of 
                        Representatives and the Senate;
                            (iii) $20,000,000, Judiciary Court Security 
                        Program; and
                            (iv) $25,000,000 is for Real Property 
                        Disposal: Provided, That disposal projects 
                        result in reduced annual operating costs: 
                        Provided further, That preference is given to 
                        disposal projects that are excess or surplus 
                        and have the highest fair market value and the 
                        greatest potential to sell: Provided further, 
                        That the obligation of funds under this 
                        paragraph for property disposal activities may 
                        not be made until 10 days after a proposed 
                        spending plan and explanation for each project 
                        to be undertaken, including estimated savings, 
                        has been submitted to the Committees on 
                        Appropriations of the House of Representatives 
                        and the Senate:
 Provided further, That the amounts provided in this or any prior Act 
for ``Repairs and Alterations'' may be used to fund costs associated 
with implementing security improvements to buildings necessary to meet 
the minimum standards for security in accordance with current law and 
in compliance with the reprogramming guidelines of the appropriate 
Committees of the House and Senate: Provided further, That the 
difference between the funds appropriated and expended on any projects 
in this or any prior Act, under the heading ``Repairs and 
Alterations'', may be transferred to Basic Repairs and Alterations or 
used to fund authorized increases in prospectus projects: Provided 
further, That the amount provided in this or any prior Act for Basic 
Repairs and Alterations may be used to pay claims against the 
Government arising from any projects under the heading ``Repairs and 
Alterations'' or used to fund authorized increases in prospectus 
projects;
            (3) $5,500,000,000 (reduced by $1,669,500) (reduced by 
        $43,000,000) for rental of space to remain available until 
        expended; and
            (4) $2,244,132,000 for building operations to remain 
        available until expended, of which $1,122,727,000 is for 
        building services, and $1,121,405,000 is for salaries and 
        expenses: Provided further, That not to exceed 5 percent of any 
        appropriation made available under this paragraph for building 
        operations may be transferred between and merged with such 
        appropriations upon notification to the Committees on 
        Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the Senate, 
        but no such appropriation shall be increased by more than 5 
        percent by any such transfers:  Provided further, That section 
        508 of this title shall not apply with respect to funds made 
        available under this heading for building operations:
 Provided further, That the total amount of funds made available from 
this Fund to the General Services Administration shall not be available 
for expenses of any construction, repair, alteration and acquisition 
project for which a prospectus, if required by 40 U.S.C. 3307(a), has 
not been approved, except that necessary funds may be expended for each 
project for required expenses for the development of a proposed 
prospectus: Provided further, That funds available in the Federal 
Buildings Fund may be expended for emergency repairs when advance 
approval is obtained from the Committees on Appropriations: Provided 
further, That amounts necessary to provide reimbursable special 
services to other agencies under 40 U.S.C. 592(b)(2) and amounts to 
provide such reimbursable fencing, lighting, guard booths, and other 
facilities on private or other property not in Government ownership or 
control as may be appropriate to enable the United States Secret 
Service to perform its protective functions pursuant to 18 U.S.C. 3056, 
shall be available from such revenues and collections: Provided 
further, That revenues and collections and any other sums accruing to 
this Fund during fiscal year 2015, excluding reimbursements under 40 
U.S.C. 592(b)(2) in excess of the aggregate new obligational authority 
authorized for Real Property Activities of the Federal Buildings Fund 
in this Act shall remain in the Fund and shall not be available for 
expenditure except as authorized in appropriations Acts.

                           general activities

                         government-wide policy

    For expenses authorized by law, not otherwise provided for, for 
Government-wide policy and evaluation activities associated with the 
management of real and personal property assets and certain 
administrative services; Government-wide policy support 
responsibilities relating to acquisition, travel, motor vehicles, 
information technology management, and related technology activities; 
and services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109; $58,000,000.

                           operating expenses

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For expenses authorized by law, not otherwise provided for, for 
Government-wide activities associated with utilization and donation of 
surplus personal property; disposal of real property; agency-wide 
policy direction, management, and communications; the Civilian Board of 
Contract Appeals; services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109; $61,049,000, 
of which $26,328,000 is for Real and Personal Property Management and 
Disposal; $25,729,000 is for the Office of the Administrator, of which 
not to exceed $7,500 is for official reception and representation 
expenses; and $8,992,000 is for the Civilian Board of Contract Appeals: 
Provided further, That not to exceed 5 percent of the appropriation 
made available under this heading for Office of the Administrator may 
be transferred to the appropriation for the Real and Personal Property 
Management and Disposal upon notification to the Committees on 
Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the Senate, but the 
appropriation for the Real and Personal Property Management and 
Disposal may not be increased by more than 5 percent by any such 
transfer.

                      office of inspector general

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Inspector General and 
service authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, $65,000,000, of which $2,000,000 
is available until expended: Provided, That not to exceed $50,000 shall 
be available for payment for information and detection of fraud against 
the Government, including payment for recovery of stolen Government 
property: Provided further, That not to exceed $2,500 shall be 
available for awards to employees of other Federal agencies and private 
citizens in recognition of efforts and initiatives resulting in 
enhanced Office of Inspector General effectiveness.

           allowances and office staff for former presidents

    For carrying out the provisions of the Act of August 25, 1958 (3 
U.S.C. 102 note), and Public Law 95-138, $1,672,000.

                     federal citizen services fund

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Citizen Services and 
Innovative Technologies, including services authorized by 40 U.S.C. 323 
and 44 U.S.C. 3604; and for necessary expenses in support of 
interagency projects that enable the Federal Government to enhance its 
ability to conduct activities electronically, through the development 
and implementation of innovative uses of information technology; 
$53,294,000, to be deposited into the Federal Citizen Services Fund: 
Provided, That the previous amount may be transferred to Federal 
agencies to carry out the purpose of the Federal Citizen Services Fund: 
Provided further, That the appropriations, revenues, reimbursements, 
and collections deposited into the Fund shall be available until 
expended for necessary expenses of Federal Citizen Services and other 
activities that enable the Federal Government to enhance its ability to 
conduct activities electronically in the aggregate amount not to exceed 
$90,000,000: Provided further, That appropriations revenues, 
reimbursements, and collections accruing to this Fund during fiscal 
year 2015 in excess of such amount shall remain in the Fund and shall 
not be available for expenditure except as authorized in appropriations 
Acts: Provided further, That any appropriations provided to the 
Electronic Government Fund that remain unobligated as of September 30, 
2014, may be transferred to the Federal Citizen Services Fund: Provided 
further, That the transfer authorities provided herein shall be in 
addition to any other transfer authority provided in this Act.

       administrative provisions--general services administration

                     (including transfer of funds)

    Sec. 507.  Funds available to the General Services Administration 
shall be available for the hire of passenger motor vehicles.
    Sec. 508.  Funds in the Federal Buildings Fund made available for 
fiscal year 2015 for Federal Buildings Fund activities may be 
transferred between such activities only to the extent necessary to 
meet program requirements: Provided, That any proposed transfers shall 
be approved in advance by the Committees on Appropriations of the House 
of Representatives and the Senate.
    Sec. 509.  Except as otherwise provided in this title, funds made 
available by this Act shall be used to transmit a fiscal year 2016 
request for United States Courthouse construction only if the request: 
(1) meets the design guide standards for construction as established 
and approved by the General Services Administration, the Judicial 
Conference of the United States, and the Office of Management and 
Budget; (2) reflects the priorities of the Judicial Conference of the 
United States as set out in its approved 5-year construction plan; and 
(3) includes a standardized courtroom utilization study of each 
facility to be constructed, replaced, or expanded.
    Sec. 510.  None of the funds provided in this Act may be used to 
increase the amount of occupiable square feet, provide cleaning 
services, security enhancements, or any other service usually provided 
through the Federal Buildings Fund, to any agency that does not pay the 
rate per square foot assessment for space and services as determined by 
the General Services Administration in consideration of the Public 
Buildings Amendments Act of 1972 (Public Law 92-313).
    Sec. 511.  From funds made available under the heading ``Federal 
Buildings Fund, Limitations on Availability of Revenue'', claims 
against the Government of less than $250,000 arising from direct 
construction projects and acquisition of buildings may be liquidated 
from savings effected in other construction projects with prior 
notification to the Committees on Appropriations of the House of 
Representatives and the Senate.
    Sec. 512.  In any case in which the Committee on Transportation and 
Infrastructure of the House of Representatives and the Committee on 
Environment and Public Works of the Senate adopt a resolution granting 
lease authority pursuant to a prospectus transmitted to Congress by the 
Administrator of the General Services Administration under 40 U.S.C. 
3307, the Administrator shall ensure that the delineated area of 
procurement is identical to the delineated area included in the 
prospectus for all lease agreements, except that, if the Administrator 
determines that the delineated area of the procurement should not be 
identical to the delineated area included in the prospectus, the 
Administrator shall provide an explanatory statement to each of such 
committees and the Committees on Appropriations of the House of 
Representatives and the Senate prior to exercising any lease authority 
provided in the resolution.

                     Merit Systems Protection Board

                         salaries and expenses

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For necessary expenses to carry out functions of the Merit Systems 
Protection Board pursuant to Reorganization Plan Numbered 2 of 1978, 
the Civil Service Reform Act of 1978, and the Whistleblower Protection 
Act of 1989 (5 U.S.C. 5509 note), including services as authorized by 5 
U.S.C. 3109, rental of conference rooms in the District of Columbia and 
elsewhere, hire of passenger motor vehicles, direct procurement of 
survey printing, and not to exceed $2,000 for official reception and 
representation expenses, $40,655,000, to remain available until 
September 30, 2016, together with not to exceed $2,345,000, to remain 
available until September 30, 2016, for administrative expenses to 
adjudicate retirement appeals to be transferred from the Civil Service 
Retirement and Disability Fund in amounts determined by the Merit 
Systems Protection Board.

              National Archives and Records Administration

                           operating expenses

    For necessary expenses in connection with the administration of the 
National Archives and Records Administration and archived Federal 
records and related activities, as provided by law, and for expenses 
necessary for the review and declassification of documents, the 
activities of the Public Interest Declassification Board, the 
operations and maintenance of the electronic records archives, the hire 
of passenger motor vehicles, and for uniforms or allowances therefor, 
as authorized by law (5 U.S.C. 5901), including maintenance, repairs, 
and cleaning, $360,000,000.

                      office of inspector general

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Inspector General in 
carrying out the provisions of the Inspector General Reform Act of 
2008, Public Law 110-409, 122 Stat. 4302-16 (2008), and the Inspector 
General Act of 1978 (5 U.S.C. App.), and for the hire of passenger 
motor vehicles, $4,130,000.

                        repairs and restoration

    For the repair, alteration, and improvement of archives facilities, 
and to provide adequate storage for holdings, $7,600,000, to remain 
available until expended.

        national historical publications and records commission

                             grants program

    For necessary expenses for allocations and grants for historical 
publications and records as authorized by 44 U.S.C. 2504, $5,000,000, 
to remain available until expended.

                  National Credit Union Administration

               community development revolving loan fund

    For the Community Development Revolving Loan Fund program as 
authorized by 42 U.S.C. 9812, 9822 and 9910, $2,000,000 shall be 
available until September 30, 2016, for technical assistance to low-
income designated credit unions.

                      Office of Government Ethics

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses to carry out functions of the Office of 
Government Ethics pursuant to the Ethics in Government Act of 1978, the 
Ethics Reform Act of 1989, and the Stop Trading on Congressional 
Knowledge Act of 2012, including services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 
3109, rental of conference rooms in the District of Columbia and 
elsewhere, hire of passenger motor vehicles, and not to exceed $1,500 
for official reception and representation expenses, $15,420,000.

                     Office of Personnel Management

                         salaries and expenses

                  (including transfer of trust funds)

    For necessary expenses to carry out functions of the Office of 
Personnel Management (OPM) pursuant to Reorganization Plan Numbered 2 
of 1978 and the Civil Service Reform Act of 1978, including services as 
authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109; medical examinations performed for 
veterans by private physicians on a fee basis; rental of conference 
rooms in the District of Columbia and elsewhere; hire of passenger 
motor vehicles; not to exceed $2,500 for official reception and 
representation expenses; advances for reimbursements to applicable 
funds of OPM and the Federal Bureau of Investigation for expenses 
incurred under Executive Order No. 10422 of January 9, 1953, as 
amended; and payment of per diem and/or subsistence allowances to 
employees where Voting Rights Act activities require an employee to 
remain overnight at his or her post of duty, $95,910,000; and in 
addition $118,425,000 for administrative expenses, to be transferred 
from the appropriate trust funds of OPM without regard to other 
statutes, including direct procurement of printed materials, for the 
retirement and insurance programs: Provided, That the provisions of 
this appropriation shall not affect the authority to use applicable 
trust funds as provided by sections 8348(a)(1)(B), 8958(f)(2)(A), 
8988(f)(2)(A), and 9004(f)(2)(A) of title 5, United States Code: 
Provided further, That no part of this appropriation shall be available 
for salaries and expenses of the Legal Examining Unit of OPM 
established pursuant to Executive Order No. 9358 of July 1, 1943, or 
any successor unit of like purpose: Provided further, That the 
President's Commission on White House Fellows, established by Executive 
Order No. 11183 of October 3, 1964, may, during fiscal year 2015, 
accept donations of money, property, and personal services: Provided 
further, That such donations, including those from prior years, may be 
used for the development of publicity materials to provide information 
about the White House Fellows, except that no such donations shall be 
accepted for travel or reimbursement of travel expenses, or for the 
salaries of employees of such Commission.

                      office of inspector general

                         salaries and expenses

                  (including transfer of trust funds)

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Inspector General in 
carrying out the provisions of the Inspector General Act of 1978, 
including services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, hire of passenger 
motor vehicles, $4,384,000, and in addition, not to exceed $21,340,000 
for administrative expenses to audit, investigate, and provide other 
oversight of the Office of Personnel Management's retirement and 
insurance programs, to be transferred from the appropriate trust funds 
of the Office of Personnel Management, as determined by the Inspector 
General: Provided, That the Inspector General is authorized to rent 
conference rooms in the District of Columbia and elsewhere.

                       Office of Special Counsel

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses to carry out functions of the Office of 
Special Counsel pursuant to Reorganization Plan Numbered 2 of 1978, the 
Civil Service Reform Act of 1978 (Public Law 95-454), the Whistleblower 
Protection Act of 1989 (Public Law 101-12) as amended by Public Law 
107-304, the Whistleblower Protection Enhancement Act of 2012 (Public 
Law 112-199), and the Uniformed Services Employment and Reemployment 
Rights Act of 1994 (Public Law 103-353), including services as 
authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, payment of fees and expenses for 
witnesses, rental of conference rooms in the District of Columbia and 
elsewhere, and hire of passenger motor vehicles; $21,452,000.

                      Postal Regulatory Commission

                         salaries and expenses

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For necessary expenses of the Postal Regulatory Commission in 
carrying out the provisions of the Postal Accountability and 
Enhancement Act (Public Law 109-435), $14,152,000, to be derived by 
transfer from the Postal Service Fund and expended as authorized by 
section 603(a) of such Act.

              Privacy and Civil Liberties Oversight Board

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Privacy and Civil Liberties Oversight 
Board, as authorized by section 1061 of the Intelligence Reform and 
Terrorism Prevention Act of 2004 (42 U.S.C. 2000ee), $4,500,000, to 
remain available until September 30, 2016.

             Recovery Accountability and Transparency Board

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Recovery Accountability and 
Transparency Board to carry out the provisions of title XV of the 
American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (Public Law 111-5), and 
to develop and test information technology resources and oversight 
mechanisms to enhance transparency of and detect and remediate waste, 
fraud, and abuse in Federal spending, and to develop and use 
information technology resources and oversight mechanisms to detect and 
remediate waste, fraud, and abuse in obligation and expenditure of 
funds as described in section 904(d) of the Disaster Relief 
Appropriations Act, 2013 (Public Law 113-2), which shall be 
administered under the terms and conditions of the accountability 
authorities of title XV of Public Law 111-5, $15,000,000.

                   Securities and Exchange Commission

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses for the Securities and Exchange Commission, 
including services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, the rental of space 
(to include multiple year leases) in the District of Columbia and 
elsewhere, and not to exceed $3,500 for official reception and 
representation expenses, $1,400,000,000 to remain available until 
expended; of which not less than $9,239,000 shall be for the Office of 
Inspector General; of which not to exceed $50,000 shall be available 
for a permanent secretariat for the International Organization of 
Securities Commissions; of which not to exceed $100,000 shall be 
available for expenses for consultations and meetings hosted by the 
Commission with foreign governmental and other regulatory officials, 
members of their delegations and staffs to exchange views concerning 
securities matters, such expenses to include necessary logistic and 
administrative expenses and the expenses of Commission staff and 
foreign invitees in attendance including: (1) incidental expenses such 
as meals; (2) travel and transportation; and (3) related lodging or 
subsistence; of which funding for information technology initiatives 
shall be increased over the fiscal year 2014 level by not less than 
$50,000,000; and of which not less than $68,872,000 shall be for the 
Division of Economic and Risk Analysis: Provided, That fees and charges 
authorized by section 31 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 
U.S.C. 78ee) shall be credited to this account as offsetting 
collections: Provided further, That not to exceed $1,400,000,000 of 
such offsetting collections shall be available until expended for 
necessary expenses of this account: Provided further, That the total 
amount appropriated under this heading from the general fund for fiscal 
year 2015 shall be reduced as such offsetting fees are received so as 
to result in a final total fiscal year 2015 appropriation from the 
general fund estimated at not more than $0.

                        Selective Service System

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Selective Service System, including 
expenses of attendance at meetings and of training for uniformed 
personnel assigned to the Selective Service System, as authorized by 5 
U.S.C. 4101-4118 for civilian employees; hire of passenger motor 
vehicles; services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109; and not to exceed 
$750 for official reception and representation expenses; $21,500,000: 
Provided, That during the current fiscal year, the President may exempt 
this appropriation from the provisions of 31 U.S.C. 1341, whenever the 
President deems such action to be necessary in the interest of national 
defense: Provided further, That none of the funds appropriated by this 
Act may be expended for or in connection with the induction of any 
person into the Armed Forces of the United States.

                     Small Business Administration

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses, not otherwise provided for, of the Small 
Business Administration, including hire of passenger motor vehicles as 
authorized by sections 1343 and 1344 of title 31, United States Code, 
and not to exceed $3,500 for official reception and representation 
expenses, $253,882,000 (reduced by $3,882,000), of which not less than 
$12,000,000 shall be available for examinations, reviews, and other 
lender oversight activities: Provided, That the Administrator is 
authorized to charge fees to cover the cost of publications developed 
by the Small Business Administration, and certain loan program 
activities, including fees authorized by section 5(b) of the Small 
Business Act: Provided further, That, notwithstanding 31 U.S.C. 3302, 
revenues received from all such activities shall be credited to this 
account, to remain available until expended, for carrying out these 
purposes without further appropriations: Provided further, That the 
Small Business Administration may accept gifts in an amount not to 
exceed $4,000,000 and may co-sponsor activities, each in accordance 
with section 132(a) of division K of Public Law 108-447, during fiscal 
year 2015: Provided further, That $6,100,000 shall be available for the 
Loan Modernization and Accounting System, to be available until 
September 30, 2016.

                  entrepreneurial development programs

    For necessary expenses of programs supporting entrepreneurial and 
small business development, $197,825,000 (increased by $3,882,000), to 
remain available until September 30, 2016.

                      office of inspector general

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Inspector General in 
carrying out the provisions of the Inspector General Act of 1978, 
$19,400,000.

                           office of advocacy

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Advocacy in carrying out 
the provisions of title II of Public Law 94-305 (15 U.S.C. 634a et 
seq.) and the Regulatory Flexibility Act of 1980 (5 U.S.C. 601 et 
seq.), $8,750,000, to remain available until expended.

                     business loans program account

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For the cost of direct loans, $2,500,000, to remain available until 
expended, and for the cost of guaranteed loans as authorized by section 
503 of the Small Business Investment Act of 1958 (Public Law 85-699), 
$45,000,000, to remain available until expended: Provided, That such 
costs, including the cost of modifying such loans, shall be as defined 
in section 502 of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974: Provided 
further, That subject to section 502 of the Congressional Budget Act of 
1974, during fiscal year 2015 commitments to guarantee loans under 
section 503 of the Small Business Investment Act of 1958 shall not 
exceed $7,500,000,000: Provided further, That during fiscal year 2015 
commitments for general business loans authorized under section 7(a) of 
the Small Business Act shall not exceed $18,500,000,000 for a 
combination of amortizing term loans and the aggregated maximum line of 
credit provided by revolving loans: Provided further, That during 
fiscal year 2015 commitments to guarantee loans for debentures under 
section 303(b) of the Small Business Investment Act of 1958 shall not 
exceed $4,000,000,000: Provided further, That during fiscal year 2015, 
guarantees of trust certificates authorized by section 5(g) of the 
Small Business Act shall not exceed a principal amount of 
$12,000,000,000. In addition, for administrative expenses to carry out 
the direct and guaranteed loan programs, $147,726,000, which may be 
transferred to and merged with the appropriations for Salaries and 
Expenses.

                     disaster loans program account

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For administrative expenses to carry out the direct loan program 
authorized by section 7(b) of the Small Business Act, $186,858,000, to 
be available until expended, of which $1,000,000 is for the Office of 
Inspector General of the Small Business Administration for audits and 
reviews of disaster loans and the disaster loan programs and shall be 
transferred to and merged with the appropriations for the Office of 
Inspector General; of which $176,858,000 is for direct administrative 
expenses of loan making and servicing to carry out the direct loan 
program, which may be transferred to and merged with the appropriations 
for Salaries and Expenses; and of which $9,000,000 is for indirect 
administrative expenses for the direct loan program, which may be 
transferred to and merged with the appropriations for Salaries and 
Expenses.

        administrative provisions--small business administration

                     (including transfer of funds)

    Sec. 513.  Not to exceed 5 percent of any appropriation made 
available for the current fiscal year for the Small Business 
Administration in this Act may be transferred between such 
appropriations, but no such appropriation shall be increased by more 
than 10 percent by any such transfers: Provided, That any transfer 
pursuant to this paragraph shall be treated as a reprogramming of funds 
under section 608 of this Act and shall not be available for obligation 
or expenditure except in compliance with the procedures set forth in 
that section.

                      United States Postal Service

                   payment to the postal service fund

    For payment to the Postal Service Fund for revenue forgone on free 
and reduced rate mail, pursuant to subsections (c) and (d) of section 
2401 of title 39, United States Code, $58,342,000: Provided, That mail 
for overseas voting and mail for the blind shall continue to be free: 
Provided further, That 6-day delivery and rural delivery of mail shall 
continue at not less than the 1983 level: Provided further, That none 
of the funds made available to the Postal Service by this Act shall be 
used to implement any rule, regulation, or policy of charging any 
officer or employee of any State or local child support enforcement 
agency, or any individual participating in a State or local program of 
child support enforcement, a fee for information requested or provided 
concerning an address of a postal customer: Provided further, That none 
of the funds provided in this Act shall be used to consolidate or close 
small rural and other small post offices.

                      office of inspector general

                         salaries and expenses

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Inspector General in 
carrying out the provisions of the Inspector General Act of 1978, 
$243,000,000, to be derived by transfer from the Postal Service Fund 
and expended as authorized by section 603(b)(3) of the Postal 
Accountability and Enhancement Act (Public Law 109-435).

                        United States Tax Court

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses, including contract reporting and other 
services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, $50,000,000: Provided, That 
travel expenses of the judges shall be paid upon the written 
certificate of the judge.

                                TITLE VI

                      GENERAL PROVISIONS--THIS ACT

    Sec. 601.  None of the funds in this Act shall be used for the 
planning or execution of any program to pay the expenses of, or 
otherwise compensate, non-Federal parties intervening in regulatory or 
adjudicatory proceedings funded in this Act.
    Sec. 602.  None of the funds appropriated in this Act shall remain 
available for obligation beyond the current fiscal year, nor may any be 
transferred to other appropriations, unless expressly so provided 
herein.
    Sec. 603.  The expenditure of any appropriation under this Act for 
any consulting service through procurement contract pursuant to 5 
U.S.C. 3109, shall be limited to those contracts where such 
expenditures are a matter of public record and available for public 
inspection, except where otherwise provided under existing law, or 
under existing Executive order issued pursuant to existing law.
    Sec. 604.  None of the funds made available in this Act may be 
transferred to any department, agency, or instrumentality of the United 
States Government, except pursuant to a transfer made by, or transfer 
authority provided in, this Act or any other appropriations Act.
    Sec. 605.  None of the funds made available by this Act shall be 
available for any activity or for paying the salary of any Government 
employee where funding an activity or paying a salary to a Government 
employee would result in a decision, determination, rule, regulation, 
or policy that would prohibit the enforcement of section 307 of the 
Tariff Act of 1930 (19 U.S.C. 1307).
    Sec. 606.  No funds appropriated pursuant to this Act may be 
expended by an entity unless the entity agrees that in expending the 
assistance the entity will comply with chapter 83 of title 41, United 
States Code.
    Sec. 607.  No funds appropriated or otherwise made available under 
this Act shall be made available to any person or entity that has been 
convicted of violating chapter 83 of title 41, United States Code.
    Sec. 608.  Except as otherwise provided in this Act, none of the 
funds provided in this Act, provided by previous appropriations Acts to 
the agencies or entities funded in this Act that remain available for 
obligation or expenditure in fiscal year 2015, or provided from any 
accounts in the Treasury derived by the collection of fees and 
available to the agencies funded by this Act, shall be available for 
obligation or expenditure through a reprogramming of funds that: (1) 
creates a new program; (2) eliminates a program, project, or activity; 
(3) increases funds or personnel for any program, project, or activity 
for which funds have been denied or restricted by the Congress; (4) 
proposes to use funds directed for a specific activity by the Committee 
on Appropriations of either the House of Representatives or the Senate 
for a different purpose; (5) augments existing programs, projects, or 
activities in excess of $5,000,000 or 10 percent, whichever is less; 
(6) reduces existing programs, projects, or activities by $5,000,000 or 
10 percent, whichever is less; or (7) creates or reorganizes offices, 
programs, or activities unless prior approval is received from the 
Committees on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the 
Senate: Provided, That prior to any significant reorganization or 
restructuring of offices, programs, or activities, each agency or 
entity funded in this Act shall consult with the Committees on 
Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the Senate: Provided 
further, That not later than 60 days after the date of enactment of 
this Act, each agency funded by this Act shall submit a report to the 
Committees on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the 
Senate to establish the baseline for application of reprogramming and 
transfer authorities for the current fiscal year: Provided further, 
That at a minimum the report shall include: (1) a table for each 
appropriation with a separate column to display the President's budget 
request, adjustments made by Congress, adjustments due to enacted 
rescissions, if appropriate, and the fiscal year enacted level; (2) a 
delineation in the table for each appropriation both by object class 
and program, project, and activity as detailed in the budget appendix 
for the respective appropriation; and (3) an identification of items of 
special congressional interest: Provided further, That the amount 
appropriated or limited for salaries and expenses for an agency shall 
be reduced by $100,000 per day for each day after the required date 
that the report has not been submitted to the Congress.
    Sec. 609.  Except as otherwise specifically provided by law, not to 
exceed 50 percent of unobligated balances remaining available at the 
end of fiscal year 2015 from appropriations made available for salaries 
and expenses for fiscal year 2015 in this Act, shall remain available 
through September 30, 2016, for each such account for the purposes 
authorized: Provided, That a request shall be submitted to the 
Committees on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the 
Senate for approval prior to the expenditure of such funds: Provided 
further, That these requests shall be made in compliance with 
reprogramming guidelines.
    Sec. 610. (a) None of the funds made available in this Act may be 
used by the Executive Office of the President to request--
            (1) any official background investigation report on any 
        individual from the Federal Bureau of Investigation; or
            (2) a determination with respect to the treatment of an 
        organization as described in section 501(c) of the Internal 
        Revenue Code of 1986 and exempt from taxation under section 
        501(a) of such Code from the Department of the Treasury or the 
        Internal Revenue Service.
    (b) Subsection (a) shall not apply--
            (1) in the case of an official background investigation 
        report, if such individual has given express written consent 
        for such request not more than 6 months prior to the date of 
        such request and during the same presidential administration; 
        or
            (2) if such request is required due to extraordinary 
        circumstances involving national security.
    Sec. 611.  The cost accounting standards promulgated under chapter 
15 of title 41, United States Code, shall not apply with respect to a 
contract under the Federal Employees Health Benefits Program 
established under chapter 89 of title 5, United States Code.
    Sec. 612.  For the purpose of resolving litigation and implementing 
any settlement agreements regarding the nonforeign area cost-of-living 
allowance program, the Office of Personnel Management may accept and 
utilize (without regard to any restriction on unanticipated travel 
expenses imposed in an Appropriations Act) funds made available to the 
Office of Personnel Management pursuant to court approval.
    Sec. 613.  No funds appropriated by this Act shall be available to 
pay for an abortion, or the administrative expenses in connection with 
any health plan under the Federal employees health benefits program 
which provides any benefits or coverage for abortions.
    Sec. 614.  The provision of section 613 shall not apply where the 
life of the mother would be endangered if the fetus were carried to 
term, or the pregnancy is the result of an act of rape or incest.
    Sec. 615.  In order to promote Government access to commercial 
information technology, the restriction on purchasing nondomestic 
articles, materials, and supplies set forth in chapter 83 of title 41, 
United States Code (popularly known as the Buy American Act), shall not 
apply to the acquisition by the Federal Government of information 
technology (as defined in section 11101 of title 40, United States 
Code), that is a commercial item (as defined in section 103 of title 
41, United States Code).
    Sec. 616.  Notwithstanding section 1353 of title 31, United States 
Code, no officer or employee of any regulatory agency or commission 
funded by this Act may accept on behalf of that agency, nor may such 
agency or commission accept, payment or reimbursement from a non-
Federal entity for travel, subsistence, or related expenses for the 
purpose of enabling an officer or employee to attend and participate in 
any meeting or similar function relating to the official duties of the 
officer or employee when the entity offering payment or reimbursement 
is a person or entity subject to regulation by such agency or 
commission, or represents a person or entity subject to regulation by 
such agency or commission, unless the person or entity is an 
organization described in section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue 
Code of 1986 and exempt from tax under section 501(a) of such Code.
    Sec. 617.  Notwithstanding section 708 of this Act, funds made 
available to the Commodity Futures Trading Commission and the 
Securities and Exchange Commission by this or any other Act may be used 
for the interagency funding and sponsorship of a joint advisory 
committee to advise on emerging regulatory issues.
    Sec. 618.  Not later than 45 days after the end of each quarter, 
the Department of the Treasury, the Executive Office of the President, 
the Judiciary, the Federal Communications Commission, the Federal Trade 
Commission, the General Services Administration, the National Archives 
and Records Administration, the Securities and Exchange Commission, and 
the Small Business Administration shall provide the Committees on 
Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the Senate a 
quarterly accounting of the cumulative balances of any unobligated 
funds.
    Sec. 619. (a)(1) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, an 
Executive agency covered by this Act otherwise authorized to enter into 
contracts for either leases or the construction or alteration of real 
property for office, meeting, storage, or other space must consult with 
the General Services Administration before issuing a solicitation for 
offers of new leases or construction contracts, and in the case of 
succeeding leases, before entering into negotiations with the current 
lessor.
    (2) Any such agency with authority to enter into an emergency lease 
may do so during any period declared by the President to require 
emergency leasing authority with respect to such agency.
    (b) For purposes of this section, the term ``Executive agency 
covered by this Act'' means any Executive agency provided funds by this 
Act, but does not include the General Services Administration or the 
United States Postal Service.
    Sec. 620.  None of the funds made available in this Act may be used 
by the Federal Trade Commission to complete the draft report entitled 
``Interagency Working Group on Food Marketed to Children: Preliminary 
Proposed Nutrition Principles to Guide Industry Self-Regulatory 
Efforts'' unless the Interagency Working Group on Food Marketed to 
Children complies with Executive Order No. 13563.
    Sec. 621.  None of the funds made available by this or any other 
Act may be used to pay the salaries and expenses for the following 
positions:
            (1) Director, White House Office of Health Reform, or any 
        substantially similar position.
            (2) Assistant to the President for Energy and Climate 
        Change, or any substantially similar position.
            (3) Senior Advisor to the Secretary of the Treasury 
        assigned to the Presidential Task Force on the Auto Industry 
        and Senior Counselor for Manufacturing Policy, or any 
        substantially similar position.
            (4) White House Director of Urban Affairs, or any 
        substantially similar position.
    Sec. 622.  None of the funds made available by this Act may be used 
to enter into a contract, memorandum of understanding, or cooperative 
agreement with, make a grant to, or provide a loan or loan guarantee 
to, any corporation that has any unpaid Federal tax liability that has 
been assessed, for which all judicial and administrative remedies have 
been exhausted or have lapsed, and that is not being paid in a timely 
manner pursuant to an agreement with the authority responsible for 
collecting the tax liability, where the awarding agency is aware of the 
unpaid tax liability, unless the Federal agency has considered 
suspension or debarment of the corporation and has made a determination 
that this further action is not necessary to protect the interests of 
the Government.
    Sec. 623.  None of the funds made available by this Act may be used 
to enter into a contract, memorandum of understanding, or cooperative 
agreement with, make a grant to, or provide a loan or loan guarantee 
to, any corporation that was convicted of a felony criminal violation 
under any Federal law within the preceding 24 months, where the 
awarding agency is aware of the conviction, unless the Federal agency 
has considered suspension or debarment of the corporation and has made 
a determination that this further action is not necessary to protect 
the interests of the Government.
    Sec. 624. (a) There are appropriated for the following activities 
the amounts required under current law:
            (1) Compensation of the President (3 U.S.C. 102).
            (2) Payments to--
                    (A) the Judicial Officers' Retirement Fund (28 
                U.S.C. 377(o));
                    (B) the Judicial Survivors' Annuities Fund (28 
                U.S.C. 376(c)); and
                    (C) the United States Court of Federal Claims 
                Judges' Retirement Fund (28 U.S.C. 178(l)).
            (3) Payment of Government contributions--
                    (A) with respect to the health benefits of retired 
                employees, as authorized by chapter 89 of title 5, 
                United States Code, and the Retired Federal Employees 
                Health Benefits Act (74 Stat. 849); and
                    (B) with respect to the life insurance benefits for 
                employees retiring after December 31, 1989 (5 U.S.C. 
                ch. 87).
            (4) Payment to finance the unfunded liability of new and 
        increased annuity benefits under the Civil Service Retirement 
        and Disability Fund (5 U.S.C. 8348).
            (5) Payment of annuities authorized to be paid from the 
        Civil Service Retirement and Disability Fund by statutory 
        provisions other than subchapter III of chapter 83 or chapter 
        84 of title 5, United States Code.
    (b) Nothing in this section may be construed to exempt any amount 
appropriated by this section from any otherwise applicable limitation 
on the use of funds contained in this Act.
    Sec. 625.  During fiscal year 2015, no funds shall be obligated 
from the Securities and Exchange Commission Reserve Fund established by 
section 991 of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer 
Protection Act (Public Law 111-203).
    Sec. 626.  None of the funds made available by this Act shall be 
used by the Securities and Exchange Commission to finalize, issue, or 
implement any rule, regulation, or order regarding the disclosure of 
political contributions, contributions to tax exempt organizations, or 
dues paid to trade associations.
    Sec. 627.  Section 2(c) of the Multinational Species Conservation 
Fund Semipostal Stamp Act of 2010 (Public Law 111-241; 39 U.S.C. 416 
note) is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (2), by striking ``2 years'' and inserting 
        ``6 years''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(5) Stamp depictions.--Members of the public shall be 
        offered a choice of 5 stamps under this Act, depicting an 
        African elephant or an Asian elephant, a rhinoceros, a tiger, a 
        marine turtle, and a great ape, respectively.''.
    Sec. 628. (a) Not later than 180 days after the date of enactment 
of this section, the agencies specified in subsection (b) shall each 
submit a report to the Committees on Appropriations of the House of 
Representatives and the Senate on--
            (1) increasing public participation in the rulemaking 
        process and reducing uncertainty;
            (2) improving coordination with other Federal agencies to 
        eliminate redundant, inconsistent, and overlapping regulations; 
        and
            (3) identifying existing regulations that have been 
        reviewed and determined to be outmoded, ineffective, or 
        excessively burdensome.
    (b) The agencies required to submit a report specified in 
subsection (a) are--
            (1) the Consumer Product Safety Commission;
            (2) the Federal Communications Commission;
            (3) the Federal Trade Commission; and
            (4) the Securities and Exchange Commission.
    Sec. 629.  None of the funds made available in this Act may be used 
to award a contract for services to train any employee of an Executive 
agency (as that term is defined in section 105 of title 5, United 
States Code) to learn how to support or defeat legislation pending 
before Congress.
    Sec. 630. (a) None of the funds made available in this Act to the 
Internal Revenue Service may be used to destroy, deface, or dispose of 
records, regardless of their physical form or characteristics, in 
contravention of chapters 29, 31, and 33 of title 44, United States 
Code (commonly referred to as the Federal Records Act).
    (b) Not later than 90 days after the date of enactment of this Act, 
the Archivist of the United States shall conduct an inspection and 
submit a report to the Committees on Appropriations of the House of 
Representatives and the Senate, the House Committee on Oversight and 
Government Reform, and the Senate Committee on Homeland Security and 
Government Affairs on the compliance by the Internal Revenue Service 
with the provisions of chapters 29, 31, and 33 of title 44, United 
States Code, during calendar years 2009 through 2013.
    Sec. 631.  None of the funds made available by this Act may be used 
to require the disclosure by a provider of an electronic communication 
service or a remote computing service of the contents or related 
information detailed in section 2703(c) of title 18, United States 
Code, of a wire or electronic communication that is in electronic 
storage with or otherwise held or maintained by the provider, as such 
terms are defined in section 2510 of title 18, United States Code, by 
any other than a means authorized under section 2703(b)(1)(A) of title 
18, United States Code.
    Sec. 632.  Section 716 of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and 
Consumer Protection Act (15 U.S.C. 8305) is amended--
            (1) in subsection (b)--
                    (A) in paragraph (2)(B), by striking ``insured 
                depository institution'' and inserting ``covered 
                depository institution''; and
                    (B) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(3) Covered depository institution.--The term `covered 
        depository institution' means--
                    ``(A) an insured depository institution, as that 
                term is defined in section 3 of the Federal Deposit 
                Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1813); and
                    ``(B) a United States uninsured branch or agency of 
                a foreign bank.'';
            (2) in subsection (c)--
                    (A) in the heading for such subsection, by striking 
                ``Insured'' and inserting ``Covered'';
                    (B) by striking ``an insured'' and inserting ``a 
                covered'';
                    (C) by striking ``such insured'' and inserting 
                ``such covered''; and
                    (D) by striking ``or savings and loan holding 
                company'' and inserting ``savings and loan holding 
                company, or foreign banking organization (as such term 
                is defined under Regulation K of the Board of Governors 
                of the Federal Reserve System (12 CFR 211.21(o)))'';
            (3) by amending subsection (d) to read as follows:
    ``(d) Only Bona Fide Hedging and Traditional Bank Activities 
Permitted.--
            ``(1) In general.--The prohibition in subsection (a) shall 
        not apply to any covered depository institution that limits its 
        swap and security-based swap activities to the following:
                    ``(A) Hedging and other similar risk mitigation 
                activities.--Hedging and other similar risk mitigating 
                activities directly related to the covered depository 
                institution's activities.
                    ``(B) Non-structured finance swap activities.--
                Acting as a swaps entity for swaps or security-based 
                swaps other than a structured finance swap.
                    ``(C) Certain structured finance swap activities.--
                Acting as a swaps entity for swaps or security-based 
                swaps that are structured finance swaps, if--
                            ``(i) such structured finance swaps are 
                        undertaken for hedging or risk management 
                        purposes; or
                            ``(ii) each asset-backed security 
                        underlying such structured finance swaps is of 
                        a credit quality and of a type or category with 
                        respect to which the prudential regulators have 
                        jointly adopted rules authorizing swap or 
                        security-based swap activity by covered 
                        depository institutions.
            ``(2) Definitions.--For purposes of this subsection:
                    ``(A) Structured finance swap.--The term 
                `structured finance swap' means a swap or security-
                based swap based on an asset-backed security (or group 
                or index primarily comprised of asset-backed 
                securities).
                    ``(B) Asset-backed security.--The term `asset-
                backed security' has the meaning given such term under 
                section 3(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 
                U.S.C. 78c(a)).'';
            (4) in subsection (e), by striking ``an insured'' and 
        inserting ``a covered''; and
            (5) in subsection (f)--
                    (A) by striking ``an insured depository'' and 
                inserting ``a covered depository''; and
                    (B) by striking ``the insured depository'' each 
                place such term appears and inserting ``the covered 
                depository''.

                               TITLE VII

                  GENERAL PROVISIONS--GOVERNMENT-WIDE

                Departments, Agencies, and Corporations

                     (including transfer of funds)

    Sec. 701.  No department, agency, or instrumentality of the United 
States receiving appropriated funds under this or any other Act for 
fiscal year 2015 shall obligate or expend any such funds, unless such 
department, agency, or instrumentality has in place, and will continue 
to administer in good faith, a written policy designed to ensure that 
all of its workplaces are free from the illegal use, possession, or 
distribution of controlled substances (as defined in the Controlled 
Substances Act (21 U.S.C. 802)) by the officers and employees of such 
department, agency, or instrumentality.
    Sec. 702.  Unless otherwise specifically provided, the maximum 
amount allowable during the current fiscal year in accordance with 
subsection 1343(c) of title 31, United States Code, for the purchase of 
any passenger motor vehicle (exclusive of buses, ambulances, law 
enforcement vehicles, protective vehicles, and undercover surveillance 
vehicles), is hereby fixed at $13,197 except station wagons for which 
the maximum shall be $13,631: Provided, That these limits may be 
exceeded by not to exceed $3,700 for police-type vehicles, and by not 
to exceed $4,000 for special heavy-duty vehicles: Provided further, 
That the limits set forth in this section may not be exceeded by more 
than 5 percent for electric or hybrid vehicles purchased for 
demonstration under the provisions of the Electric and Hybrid Vehicle 
Research, Development, and Demonstration Act of 1976: Provided further, 
That the limits set forth in this section may be exceeded by the 
incremental cost of clean alternative fuels vehicles acquired pursuant 
to Public Law 101-549 over the cost of comparable conventionally fueled 
vehicles: Provided further, That the limits set forth in this section 
shall not apply to any vehicle that is a commercial item and which 
operates on emerging motor vehicle technology, including but not 
limited to electric, plug-in hybrid electric, and hydrogen fuel cell 
vehicles.
    Sec. 703.  Appropriations of the executive departments and 
independent establishments for the current fiscal year available for 
expenses of travel, or for the expenses of the activity concerned, are 
hereby made available for quarters allowances and cost-of-living 
allowances, in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 5922 through 5924.
    Sec. 704.  Unless otherwise specified in law, during the current 
fiscal year, no part of any appropriation contained in this or any 
other Act shall be used to pay the compensation of any officer or 
employee of the Government of the United States (including any agency 
the majority of the stock of which is owned by the Government of the 
United States) whose post of duty is in the continental United States 
unless such person: (1) is a citizen of the United States; (2) is a 
person who is lawfully admitted for permanent residence and is seeking 
citizenship as outlined in 8 U.S.C. 1324b(a)(3)(B); (3) is a person who 
is admitted as a refugee under 8 U.S.C. 1157 or is granted asylum under 
8 U.S.C. 1158 and has filed a declaration of intention to become a 
lawful permanent resident and then a citizen when eligible; or (4) is a 
person who owes allegiance to the United States: Provided, That for 
purposes of this section, affidavits signed by any such person shall be 
considered prima facie evidence that the requirements of this section 
with respect to his or her status are being complied with: Provided 
further, That for purposes of subsections (2) and (3) such affidavits 
shall be submitted prior to employment and updated thereafter as 
necessary: Provided further, That any payment made to any officer or 
employee contrary to the provisions of this section shall be 
recoverable in action by the Federal Government: Provided further, That 
this section shall not apply to any person who is an officer or 
employee of the Government of the United States on the date of 
enactment of this Act, or to international broadcasters employed by the 
Broadcasting Board of Governors, or to temporary employment of 
translators, or to temporary employment in the field service (not to 
exceed 60 days) as a result of emergencies: Provided further, That this 
section does not apply to the employment as Wildland firefighters for 
not more than 120 days of nonresident aliens employed by the Department 
of the Interior or the USDA Forest Service pursuant to an agreement 
with another country.
    Sec. 705.  Appropriations available to any department or agency 
during the current fiscal year for necessary expenses, including 
maintenance or operating expenses, shall also be available for payment 
to the General Services Administration for charges for space and 
services and those expenses of renovation and alteration of buildings 
and facilities which constitute public improvements performed in 
accordance with the Public Buildings Act of 1959 (73 Stat. 479), the 
Public Buildings Amendments of 1972 (86 Stat. 216), or other applicable 
law.
    Sec. 706.  In addition to funds provided in this or any other Act, 
all Federal agencies are authorized to receive and use funds resulting 
from the sale of materials, including Federal records disposed of 
pursuant to a records schedule recovered through recycling or waste 
prevention programs. Such funds shall be available until expended for 
the following purposes:
            (1) Acquisition, waste reduction and prevention, and 
        recycling programs as described in Executive Order No. 13423 
        (January 24, 2007), including any such programs adopted prior 
        to the effective date of the Executive order.
            (2) Other Federal agency environmental management programs, 
        including, but not limited to, the development and 
        implementation of hazardous waste management and pollution 
        prevention programs.
            (3) Other employee programs as authorized by law or as 
        deemed appropriate by the head of the Federal agency.
    Sec. 707.  Funds made available by this or any other Act for 
administrative expenses in the current fiscal year of the corporations 
and agencies subject to chapter 91 of title 31, United States Code, 
shall be available, in addition to objects for which such funds are 
otherwise available, for rent in the District of Columbia; services in 
accordance with 5 U.S.C. 3109; and the objects specified under this 
head, all the provisions of which shall be applicable to the 
expenditure of such funds unless otherwise specified in the Act by 
which they are made available: Provided, That in the event any 
functions budgeted as administrative expenses are subsequently 
transferred to or paid from other funds, the limitations on 
administrative expenses shall be correspondingly reduced.
    Sec. 708.  No part of any appropriation contained in this or any 
other Act shall be available for interagency financing of boards 
(except Federal Executive Boards), commissions, councils, committees, 
or similar groups (whether or not they are interagency entities) which 
do not have a prior and specific statutory approval to receive 
financial support from more than one agency or instrumentality.
    Sec. 709.  None of the funds made available pursuant to the 
provisions of this or any other Act shall be used to implement, 
administer, or enforce any regulation which has been disapproved 
pursuant to a joint resolution duly adopted in accordance with the 
applicable law of the United States.
    Sec. 710.  During the period in which the head of any department or 
agency, or any other officer or civilian employee of the Federal 
Government appointed by the President of the United States, holds 
office, no funds may be obligated or expended in excess of $5,000 to 
furnish or redecorate the office of such department head, agency head, 
officer, or employee, or to purchase furniture or make improvements for 
any such office, unless advance notice of such furnishing or 
redecoration is transmitted to the Committees on Appropriations of the 
House of Representatives and the Senate. For the purposes of this 
section, the term ``office'' shall include the entire suite of offices 
assigned to the individual, as well as any other space used primarily 
by the individual or the use of which is directly controlled by the 
individual.
    Sec. 711.  Notwithstanding 31 U.S.C. 1346, or section 708 of this 
Act, funds made available for the current fiscal year by this or any 
other Act shall be available for the interagency funding of national 
security and emergency preparedness telecommunications initiatives 
which benefit multiple Federal departments, agencies, or entities, as 
provided by Executive Order No. 13618 (July 6, 2012).
    Sec. 712. (a) None of the funds made available by this or any other 
Act may be obligated or expended by any department, agency, or other 
instrumentality of the Federal Government to pay the salaries or 
expenses of any individual appointed to a position of a confidential or 
policy-determining character that is excepted from the competitive 
service under section 3302 of title 5, United States Code, (pursuant to 
schedule C of subpart C of part 213 of title 5 of the Code of Federal 
Regulations) unless the head of the applicable department, agency, or 
other instrumentality employing such schedule C individual certifies to 
the Director of the Office of Personnel Management that the schedule C 
position occupied by the individual was not created solely or primarily 
in order to detail the individual to the White House.
    (b) The provisions of this section shall not apply to Federal 
employees or members of the armed forces detailed to or from an element 
of the intelligence community (as that term is defined under section 
3(4) of the National Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 3003(4))).
    Sec. 713.  No part of any appropriation contained in this or any 
other Act shall be available for the payment of the salary of any 
officer or employee of the Federal Government, who--
            (1) prohibits or prevents, or attempts or threatens to 
        prohibit or prevent, any other officer or employee of the 
        Federal Government from having any direct oral or written 
        communication or contact with any Member, committee, or 
        subcommittee of the Congress in connection with any matter 
        pertaining to the employment of such other officer or employee 
        or pertaining to the department or agency of such other officer 
        or employee in any way, irrespective of whether such 
        communication or contact is at the initiative of such other 
        officer or employee or in response to the request or inquiry of 
        such Member, committee, or subcommittee; or
            (2) removes, suspends from duty without pay, demotes, 
        reduces in rank, seniority, status, pay, or performance or 
        efficiency rating, denies promotion to, relocates, reassigns, 
        transfers, disciplines, or discriminates in regard to any 
        employment right, entitlement, or benefit, or any term or 
        condition of employment of, any other officer or employee of 
        the Federal Government, or attempts or threatens to commit any 
        of the foregoing actions with respect to such other officer or 
        employee, by reason of any communication or contact of such 
        other officer or employee with any Member, committee, or 
        subcommittee of the Congress as described in paragraph (1).
    Sec. 714. (a) None of the funds made available in this or any other 
Act may be obligated or expended for any employee training that--
            (1) does not meet identified needs for knowledge, skills, 
        and abilities bearing directly upon the performance of official 
        duties;
            (2) contains elements likely to induce high levels of 
        emotional response or psychological stress in some 
        participants;
            (3) does not require prior employee notification of the 
        content and methods to be used in the training and written end 
        of course evaluation;
            (4) contains any methods or content associated with 
        religious or quasi-religious belief systems or ``new age'' 
        belief systems as defined in Equal Employment Opportunity 
        Commission Notice N-915.022, dated September 2, 1988; or
            (5) is offensive to, or designed to change, participants' 
        personal values or lifestyle outside the workplace.
    (b) Nothing in this section shall prohibit, restrict, or otherwise 
preclude an agency from conducting training bearing directly upon the 
performance of official duties.
    Sec. 715.  No part of any funds appropriated in this or any other 
Act shall be used by an agency of the executive branch, other than for 
normal and recognized executive-legislative relationships, for 
publicity or propaganda purposes, and for the preparation, distribution 
or use of any kit, pamphlet, booklet, publication, radio, television, 
or film presentation designed to support or defeat legislation pending 
before the Congress, except in presentation to the Congress itself.
    Sec. 716.  None of the funds appropriated by this or any other Act 
may be used by an agency to provide a Federal employee's home address 
to any labor organization except when the employee has authorized such 
disclosure or when such disclosure has been ordered by a court of 
competent jurisdiction.
    Sec. 717.  None of the funds made available in this or any other 
Act may be used to provide any non-public information such as mailing, 
telephone or electronic mailing lists to any person or any organization 
outside of the Federal Government without the approval of the 
Committees on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the 
Senate.
    Sec. 718.  No part of any appropriation contained in this or any 
other Act shall be used directly or indirectly, including by private 
contractor, for publicity or propaganda purposes within the United 
States not heretofore authorized by Congress.
    Sec. 719. (a) In this section, the term ``agency''--
            (1) means an Executive agency, as defined under 5 U.S.C. 
        105; and
            (2) includes a military department, as defined under 
        section 102 of such title, the Postal Service, and the Postal 
        Regulatory Commission.
    (b) Unless authorized in accordance with law or regulations to use 
such time for other purposes, an employee of an agency shall use 
official time in an honest effort to perform official duties. An 
employee not under a leave system, including a Presidential appointee 
exempted under 5 U.S.C. 6301(2), has an obligation to expend an honest 
effort and a reasonable proportion of such employee's time in the 
performance of official duties.
    Sec. 720.  Notwithstanding 31 U.S.C. 1346 and section 708 of this 
Act, funds made available for the current fiscal year by this or any 
other Act to any department or agency, which is a member of the Federal 
Accounting Standards Advisory Board (FASAB), shall be available to 
finance an appropriate share of FASAB administrative costs.
    Sec. 721.  Notwithstanding 31 U.S.C. 1346 and section 708 of this 
Act, the head of each Executive department and agency is hereby 
authorized to transfer to or reimburse ``General Services 
Administration, Government-wide Policy'' with the approval of the 
Director of the Office of Management and Budget, funds made available 
for the current fiscal year by this or any other Act, including rebates 
from charge card and other contracts: Provided, That these funds shall 
be administered by the Administrator of General Services to support 
Government-wide and other multi-agency financial, information 
technology, procurement, and other management innovations, initiatives, 
and activities, as approved by the Director of the Office of Management 
and Budget, in consultation with the appropriate interagency and multi-
agency groups designated by the Director (including the President's 
Management Council for overall management improvement initiatives, the 
Chief Financial Officers Council for financial management initiatives, 
the Chief Information Officers Council for information technology 
initiatives, the Chief Human Capital Officers Council for human capital 
initiatives, the Chief Acquisition Officers Council for procurement 
initiatives, and the Performance Improvement Council for performance 
improvement initiatives): Provided further, That the total funds 
transferred or reimbursed shall not exceed $17,000,000 for Government-
Wide innovations, initiatives, and activities: Provided further, That 
the funds transferred to or for reimbursement of ``General Services 
Administration, Government-wide Policy'' during fiscal year 2015 shall 
remain available for obligation through September 30, 2016: Provided 
further, That such transfers or reimbursements may only be made after 
15 days following notification of the Committees on Appropriations of 
the House of Representatives and the Senate by the Director of the 
Office of Management and Budget.
    Sec. 722.  Notwithstanding any other provision of law, a woman may 
breastfeed her child at any location in a Federal building or on 
Federal property, if the woman and her child are otherwise authorized 
to be present at the location.
    Sec. 723.  Notwithstanding 31 U.S.C. 1346, or section 708 of this 
Act, funds made available for the current fiscal year by this or any 
other Act shall be available for the interagency funding of specific 
projects, workshops, studies, and similar efforts to carry out the 
purposes of the National Science and Technology Council (authorized by 
Executive Order No. 12881), which benefit multiple Federal departments, 
agencies, or entities: Provided, That the Office of Management and 
Budget shall provide a report describing the budget of and resources 
connected with the National Science and Technology Council to the 
Committees on Appropriations, the House Committee on Science and 
Technology, and the Senate Committee on Commerce, Science, and 
Transportation 90 days after enactment of this Act.
    Sec. 724.  Any request for proposals, solicitation, grant 
application, form, notification, press release, or other publications 
involving the distribution of Federal funds shall indicate the agency 
providing the funds, the Catalog of Federal Domestic Assistance Number, 
as applicable, and the amount provided: Provided, That this section 
shall apply to direct payments, formula funds, and grants received by a 
State receiving Federal funds.
    Sec. 725. (a) Prohibition of Federal Agency Monitoring of 
Individuals' Internet Use.--None of the funds made available in this or 
any other Act may be used by any Federal agency--
            (1) to collect, review, or create any aggregation of data, 
        derived from any means, that includes any personally 
        identifiable information relating to an individual's access to 
        or use of any Federal Government Internet site of the agency; 
        or
            (2) to enter into any agreement with a third party 
        (including another government agency) to collect, review, or 
        obtain any aggregation of data, derived from any means, that 
        includes any personally identifiable information relating to an 
        individual's access to or use of any nongovernmental Internet 
        site.
    (b) Exceptions.--The limitations established in subsection (a) 
shall not apply to--
            (1) any record of aggregate data that does not identify 
        particular persons;
            (2) any voluntary submission of personally identifiable 
        information;
            (3) any action taken for law enforcement, regulatory, or 
        supervisory purposes, in accordance with applicable law; or
            (4) any action described in subsection (a)(1) that is a 
        system security action taken by the operator of an Internet 
        site and is necessarily incident to providing the Internet site 
        services or to protecting the rights or property of the 
        provider of the Internet site.
    (c) Definitions.--For the purposes of this section:
            (1) The term ``regulatory'' means agency actions to 
        implement, interpret or enforce authorities provided in law.
            (2) The term ``supervisory'' means examinations of the 
        agency's supervised institutions, including assessing safety 
        and soundness, overall financial condition, management 
        practices and policies and compliance with applicable standards 
        as provided in law.
    Sec. 726. (a) None of the funds appropriated by this Act may be 
used to enter into or renew a contract which includes a provision 
providing prescription drug coverage, except where the contract also 
includes a provision for contraceptive coverage.
    (b) Nothing in this section shall apply to a contract with--
            (1) any of the following religious plans:
                    (A) Personal Care's HMO; and
                    (B) OSF HealthPlans, Inc.; and
            (2) any existing or future plan, if the carrier for the 
        plan objects to such coverage on the basis of religious 
        beliefs.
    (c) In implementing this section, any plan that enters into or 
renews a contract under this section may not subject any individual to 
discrimination on the basis that the individual refuses to prescribe or 
otherwise provide for contraceptives because such activities would be 
contrary to the individual's religious beliefs or moral convictions.
    (d) Nothing in this section shall be construed to require coverage 
of abortion or abortion-related services.
    Sec. 727.  The United States is committed to ensuring the health of 
its Olympic, Pan American, and Paralympic athletes, and supports the 
strict adherence to anti-doping in sport through testing, adjudication, 
education, and research as performed by nationally recognized oversight 
authorities.
    Sec. 728.  Notwithstanding any other provision of law, funds 
appropriated for official travel to Federal departments and agencies 
may be used by such departments and agencies, if consistent with Office 
of Management and Budget Circular A-126 regarding official travel for 
Government personnel, to participate in the fractional aircraft 
ownership pilot program.
    Sec. 729.  Notwithstanding any other provision of law, none of the 
funds appropriated or made available under this or any other 
appropriations Act may be used to implement or enforce restrictions or 
limitations on the Coast Guard Congressional Fellowship Program, or to 
implement the proposed regulations of the Office of Personnel 
Management to add sections 300.311 through 300.316 to part 300 of title 
5 of the Code of Federal Regulations, published in the Federal 
Register, volume 68, number 174, on September 9, 2003 (relating to the 
detail of executive branch employees to the legislative branch).
    Sec. 730.  Notwithstanding any other provision of law, no executive 
branch agency shall purchase, construct, or lease any additional 
facilities, except within or contiguous to existing locations, to be 
used for the purpose of conducting Federal law enforcement training 
without the advance approval of the Committees on Appropriations of the 
House of Representatives and the Senate, except that the Federal Law 
Enforcement Training Center is authorized to obtain the temporary use 
of additional facilities by lease, contract, or other agreement for 
training which cannot be accommodated in existing Center facilities.
    Sec. 731.  Unless otherwise authorized by existing law, none of the 
funds provided in this or any other Act may be used by an executive 
branch agency to produce any prepackaged news story intended for 
broadcast or distribution in the United States, unless the story 
includes a clear notification within the text or audio of the 
prepackaged news story that the prepackaged news story was prepared or 
funded by that executive branch agency.
    Sec. 732.  None of the funds made available in this Act may be used 
in contravention of section 552a of title 5, United States Code 
(popularly known as the Privacy Act), and regulations implementing that 
section.
    Sec. 733. (a) In General.--None of the funds appropriated or 
otherwise made available by this or any other Act may be used for any 
Federal Government contract with any foreign incorporated entity which 
is treated as an inverted domestic corporation under section 835(b) of 
the Homeland Security Act of 2002 (6 U.S.C. 395(b)) or any subsidiary 
of such an entity.
    (b) Waivers.--
            (1) In general.--Any Secretary shall waive subsection (a) 
        with respect to any Federal Government contract under the 
        authority of such Secretary if the Secretary determines that 
        the waiver is required in the interest of national security.
            (2) Report to congress.--Any Secretary issuing a waiver 
        under paragraph (1) shall report such issuance to Congress.
    (c) Exception.--This section shall not apply to any Federal 
Government contract entered into before the date of the enactment of 
this Act, or to any task order issued pursuant to such contract.
    Sec. 734.  During fiscal year 2015, for each employee who--
            (1) retires under section 8336(d)(2) or 8414(b)(1)(B) of 
        title 5, United States Code; or
            (2) retires under any other provision of subchapter III of 
        chapter 83 or chapter 84 of such title 5 and receives a payment 
        as an incentive to separate, the separating agency shall remit 
        to the Civil Service Retirement and Disability Fund an amount 
        equal to the Office of Personnel Management's average unit cost 
        of processing a retirement claim for the preceding fiscal year. 
        Such amounts shall be available until expended to the Office of 
        Personnel Management and shall be deemed to be an 
        administrative expense under section 8348(a)(1)(B) of title 5, 
        United States Code.
    Sec. 735. (a) None of the funds made available in this or any other 
Act may be used to recommend or require any entity submitting an offer 
for a Federal contract or otherwise performing or participating in 
acquisition at any stage of the acquisition process (as defined in 
section 131 of title 41, United States Code) of property or services by 
the Federal Government to disclose any of the following information as 
a condition of submitting the offer or otherwise performing in or 
participating in such acquisition:
            (1) Any payment consisting of a contribution, expenditure, 
        independent expenditure, or disbursement for an electioneering 
        communication that is made by the entity, its officers or 
        directors, or any of its affiliates or subsidiaries to a 
        candidate for election for Federal office or to a political 
        committee, or that is otherwise made with respect to any 
        election for Federal office.
            (2) Any disbursement of funds (other than a payment 
        described in paragraph (1)) made by the entity, its officers or 
        directors, or any of its affiliates or subsidiaries to any 
        person with the intent or the reasonable expectation that the 
        person will use the funds to make a payment described in 
        paragraph (1).
    (b) In this section, each of the terms ``contribution'', 
``expenditure'', ``independent expenditure'', ``electioneering 
communication'', ``candidate'', ``election'', and ``Federal office'' 
has the meaning given such term in the Federal Election Campaign Act of 
1971 (2 U.S.C. 431 et seq.).
    Sec. 736.  None of the funds made available in this or any other 
Act may be used to pay for the painting of a portrait of an officer or 
employee of the Federal government, including the President, the Vice 
President, a member of Congress (including a Delegate or a Resident 
Commissioner to Congress), the head of an executive branch agency (as 
defined in section 133 of title 41, United States Code), or the head of 
an office of the legislative branch.
    Sec. 737. (a)(1) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, and 
except as otherwise provided in this section, no part of any of the 
funds appropriated for fiscal year 2015, by this or any other Act, may 
be used to pay any prevailing rate employee described in section 
5342(a)(2)(A) of title 5, United States Code--
                    (A) during the period from the date of expiration 
                of the limitation imposed by the comparable section for 
                previous fiscal years until the normal effective date 
                of the applicable wage survey adjustment that is to 
                take effect in fiscal year 2015, in an amount that 
                exceeds the rate payable for the applicable grade and 
                step of the applicable wage schedule in accordance with 
                such section; and
                    (B) during the period consisting of the remainder 
                of fiscal year 2015, in an amount that exceeds, as a 
                result of a wage survey adjustment, the rate payable 
                under subparagraph (A) by more than the sum of--
                            (i) the percentage adjustment taking effect 
                        in fiscal year 2015 under section 5303 of title 
                        5, United States Code, in the rates of pay 
                        under the General Schedule; and
                            (ii) the difference between the overall 
                        average percentage of the locality-based 
                        comparability payments taking effect in fiscal 
                        year 2015 under section 5304 of such title 
                        (whether by adjustment or otherwise), and the 
                        overall average percentage of such payments 
                        which was effective in the previous fiscal year 
                        under such section.
            (2) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, no 
        prevailing rate employee described in subparagraph (B) or (C) 
        of section 5342(a)(2) of title 5, United States Code, and no 
        employee covered by section 5348 of such title, may be paid 
        during the periods for which paragraph (1) is in effect at a 
        rate that exceeds the rates that would be payable under 
        paragraph (1) were paragraph (1) applicable to such employee.
            (3) For the purposes of this subsection, the rates payable 
        to an employee who is covered by this subsection and who is 
        paid from a schedule not in existence on September 30, 2014, 
        shall be determined under regulations prescribed by the Office 
        of Personnel Management.
            (4) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, rates of 
        premium pay for employees subject to this subsection may not be 
        changed from the rates in effect on September 30, 2014, except 
        to the extent determined by the Office of Personnel Management 
        to be consistent with the purpose of this subsection.
            (5) This subsection shall apply with respect to pay for 
        service performed after September 30, 2014.
            (6) For the purpose of administering any provision of law 
        (including any rule or regulation that provides premium pay, 
        retirement, life insurance, or any other employee benefit) that 
        requires any deduction or contribution, or that imposes any 
        requirement or limitation on the basis of a rate of salary or 
        basic pay, the rate of salary or basic pay payable after the 
        application of this subsection shall be treated as the rate of 
        salary or basic pay.
            (7) Nothing in this subsection shall be considered to 
        permit or require the payment to any employee covered by this 
        subsection at a rate in excess of the rate that would be 
        payable were this subsection not in effect.
            (8) The Office of Personnel Management may provide for 
        exceptions to the limitations imposed by this subsection if the 
        Office determines that such exceptions are necessary to ensure 
        the recruitment or retention of qualified employees.
    (b) Notwithstanding subsection (a), the adjustment in rates of 
basic pay for the statutory pay systems that take place in fiscal year 
2015 under sections 5344 and 5348 of title 5, United States Code, shall 
be--
            (1) not less than the percentage received by employees in 
        the same location whose rates of basic pay are adjusted 
        pursuant to the statutory pay systems under sections 5303 and 
        5304 of title 5, United States Code: Provided, That prevailing 
        rate employees at locations where there are no employees whose 
        pay is increased pursuant to sections 5303 and 5304 of title 5, 
        United States Code, and prevailing rate employees described in 
        section 5343(a)(5) of title 5, United States Code, shall be 
        considered to be located in the pay locality designated as 
        ``Rest of United States'' pursuant to section 5304 of title 5, 
        United States Code, for purposes of this subsection; and
            (2) effective as of the first day of the first applicable 
        pay period beginning after September 30, 2014.
    Sec. 738. (a) The Vice President may not receive a pay raise in 
calendar year 2015, notwithstanding the rate adjustment made under 
section 104 of title 3, United States Code, or any other provision of 
law.
    (b) An employee serving in an Executive Schedule position, or in a 
position for which the rate of pay is fixed by statute at an Executive 
Schedule rate, may not receive a pay rate increase in calendar year 
2015, notwithstanding schedule adjustments made under section 5318 of 
title 5, United States Code, or any other provision of law, except as 
provided in subsection (g), (h), or (i). This subsection applies only 
to employees who are holding a position under a political appointment.
    (c) A chief of mission or ambassador at large may not receive a pay 
rate increase in calendar year 2015, notwithstanding section 401 of the 
Foreign Service Act of 1980 (Public Law 96-465) or any other provision 
of law, except as provided in subsection (g), (h), or (i).
    (d) Notwithstanding sections 5382 and 5383 of title 5, United 
States Code, a pay rate increase may not be received in calendar year 
2015 (except as provided in subsection (g), (h), or (i)) by--
            (1) a noncareer appointee in the Senior Executive Service 
        paid a rate of basic pay at or above level IV of the Executive 
        Schedule; or
            (2) a limited term appointee or limited emergency appointee 
        in the Senior Executive Service serving under a political 
        appointment and paid a rate of basic pay at or above level IV 
        of the Executive Schedule.
    (e) Any employee paid a rate of basic pay (including any locality-
based payments under section 5304 of title 5, United States Code, or 
similar authority) at or above level IV of the Executive Schedule who 
serves under a political appointment may not receive a pay rate 
increase in calendar year 2015, notwithstanding any other provision of 
law, except as provided in subsection (g), (h), or (i). This subsection 
does not apply to employees in the General Schedule pay system or the 
Foreign Service pay system, or to employees appointed under section 
3161 of title 5, United States Code, or to employees in another pay 
system whose position would be classified at GS-15 or below if chapter 
51 of title 5, United States Code, applied to them.
    (f) Nothing in subsections (b) through (e) shall prevent employees 
who do not serve under a political appointment from receiving pay 
increases as otherwise provided under applicable law.
    (g) A career appointee in the Senior Executive Service who receives 
a Presidential appointment and who makes an election to retain Senior 
Executive Service basic pay entitlements under section 3392 of title 5, 
United States Code, is not subject to this section.
    (h) A member of the Senior Foreign Service who receives a 
Presidential appointment to any position in the executive branch and 
who makes an election to retain Senior Foreign Service pay entitlements 
under section 302(b) of the Foreign Service Act of 1980 (Public Law 96-
465) is not subject to this section.
    (i) Notwithstanding subsections (b) through (e), an employee in a 
covered position may receive a pay rate increase upon an authorized 
movement to a different covered position with higher-level duties and a 
pre-established higher level or range of pay, except that any such 
increase must be based on the rates of pay and applicable pay 
limitations in effect on December 31, 2013.
    (j) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, for an individual 
who is newly appointed to a covered position during the period of time 
subject to this section, the initial pay rate shall be based on the 
rates of pay and applicable pay limitations in effect on December 31, 
2013.
    (k) If an employee affected by subsections (b) through (e) is 
subject to a biweekly pay period that begins in calendar year 2015 but 
ends in calendar year 2016, the bar on the employee's receipt of pay 
rate increases shall apply through the end of that pay period.
    Sec. 739. (a) The head of any Executive branch department, agency, 
board, commission, or office funded by this or any other appropriations 
Act shall submit annual reports to the Inspector General or senior 
ethics official for any entity without an Inspector General, regarding 
the costs and contracting procedures related to each conference held by 
any such department, agency, board, commission, or office during fiscal 
year 2015 for which the cost to the United States Government was more 
than $100,000.
    (b) Each report submitted pursuant to subsection (a) shall include, 
with respect to each conference described in subsection (a) held during 
the applicable period--
            (1) a description of the purpose of the conference;
            (2) the number of participants attending each conference;
            (3) a detailed statement of the costs to the government for 
        the conference, including--
                    (A) the cost of any food or beverages;
                    (B) the cost of any audio-visual services;
                    (C) the cost of employee or contractor travel to 
                and from the conference; and
                    (D) a discussion of the methodology used to 
                determine which costs relate to the conference; and
            (4) a description of the contracting procedures used, 
        including--
                    (A) whether contracts were awarded on a competitive 
                basis; and
                    (B) a discussion of any cost comparison conducted 
                by the departmental component or office in evaluating 
                potential contractors for the conference.
    (c) Not later than 15 days after the date of a conference held by 
any Executive branch department, agency, board, commission, or office 
funded by this or any other appropriations Act during fiscal year 2015 
for which the cost to the United States Government was more than 
$20,000, the head of any such department, agency, board, commission, or 
office shall notify the Inspector General or senior ethics official for 
any entity without an Inspector General, of the date, location, and 
number of employees attending such conference.
    (d) A grant or contract funded by amounts appropriated by this or 
any other appropriations Act may not be used for the purpose of 
defraying the costs of a conference described in subsection (c) that is 
not directly and programmatically related to the purpose for which the 
grant or contract was awarded, such as a conference held in connection 
with planning, training, assessment, review, or other routine purposes 
related to a project funded by the grant or contract.
    (e) None of the funds made available in this or any other 
appropriations Act may be used for travel and conference activities 
that are not in compliance with Office of Management and Budget 
Memorandum M-12-12 dated May 11, 2012.
    Sec. 740.  None of the funds made available in this or any other 
appropriations Act may be used to increase, eliminate, or reduce 
funding for a program, project, or activity as proposed in the 
President's budget request for a fiscal year until such proposed change 
is subsequently enacted in an appropriation Act, or unless such change 
is made pursuant to the reprogramming or transfer provisions of this or 
any other appropriations Act.
    Sec. 741.  Except as expressly provided otherwise, any reference to 
``this Act'' contained in any title other than title IV or VIII shall 
not apply to such title IV or VIII.

                               TITLE VIII

                GENERAL PROVISIONS--DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA

                     (including transfers of funds)

    Sec. 801.  There are appropriated from the applicable funds of the 
District of Columbia such sums as may be necessary for making refunds 
and for the payment of legal settlements or judgments that have been 
entered against the District of Columbia government.
    Sec. 802.  None of the Federal funds provided in this Act shall be 
used for publicity or propaganda purposes or implementation of any 
policy including boycott designed to support or defeat legislation 
pending before Congress or any State legislature.
    Sec. 803. (a) None of the Federal funds provided under this Act to 
the agencies funded by this Act, both Federal and District government 
agencies, that remain available for obligation or expenditure in fiscal 
year 2015, or provided from any accounts in the Treasury of the United 
States derived by the collection of fees available to the agencies 
funded by this Act, shall be available for obligation or expenditures 
for an agency through a reprogramming of funds which--
            (1) creates new programs;
            (2) eliminates a program, project, or responsibility 
        center;
            (3) establishes or changes allocations specifically denied, 
        limited or increased under this Act;
            (4) increases funds or personnel by any means for any 
        program, project, or responsibility center for which funds have 
        been denied or restricted;
            (5) re-establishes any program or project previously 
        deferred through reprogramming;
            (6) augments any existing program, project, or 
        responsibility center through a reprogramming of funds in 
        excess of $3,000,000 or 10 percent, whichever is less; or
            (7) increases by 20 percent or more personnel assigned to a 
        specific program, project or responsibility center,
unless prior approval is received from the Committees on Appropriations 
of the House of Representatives and the Senate.
    (b)  The District of Columbia government is authorized to approve 
and execute reprogramming and transfer requests of local funds under 
this title through November 7, 2015.
    Sec. 804.  None of the Federal funds provided in this Act may be 
used by the District of Columbia to provide for salaries, expenses, or 
other costs associated with the offices of United States Senator or 
United States Representative under section 4(d) of the District of 
Columbia Statehood Constitutional Convention Initiatives of 1979 (D.C. 
Law 3-171; sec. 1-123, D.C. Official Code).
    Sec. 805.  Except as otherwise provided in this section, none of 
the funds made available by this Act or by any other Act may be used to 
provide any officer or employee of the District of Columbia with an 
official vehicle unless the officer or employee uses the vehicle only 
in the performance of the officer's or employee's official duties. For 
purposes of this section, the term ``official duties'' does not include 
travel between the officer's or employee's residence and workplace, 
except in the case of--
            (1) an officer or employee of the Metropolitan Police 
        Department who resides in the District of Columbia or is 
        otherwise designated by the Chief of the Department;
            (2) at the discretion of the Fire Chief, an officer or 
        employee of the District of Columbia Fire and Emergency Medical 
        Services Department who resides in the District of Columbia and 
        is on call 24 hours a day or is otherwise designated by the 
        Fire Chief;
            (3) the Mayor of the District of Columbia;
            (4) the Chairman of the Council of the District of 
        Columbia;
            (5) at the discretion of the Chief Medical Examiner, an 
        employee of the Office of the Chief Medical Examiner who 
        resides in the District and is on call 24 hours a day or is 
        otherwise designated by the Chief Medical Examiner;
            (6) at the discretion of the Director of the Homeland 
        Security and Emergency Management Agency, an officer or 
        employee of the Homeland Security and Emergency Management 
        Agency who resides in the District and is on call 24 hours a 
        day or is otherwise designated by the Director; and
            (7) at the discretion of the Director of the Department of 
        Corrections, an officer or employee of the District of Columbia 
        Department of Corrections who resides in the District of 
        Columbia and is on call 24 hours a day or is otherwise 
        designated by the Director.
    Sec. 806. (a) None of the Federal funds contained in this Act may 
be used by the District of Columbia Attorney General or any other 
officer or entity of the District government to provide assistance for 
any petition drive or civil action which seeks to require Congress to 
provide for voting representation in Congress for the District of 
Columbia.
    (b) Nothing in this section bars the District of Columbia Attorney 
General from reviewing or commenting on briefs in private lawsuits, or 
from consulting with officials of the District government regarding 
such lawsuits.
    Sec. 807.  None of the Federal funds contained in this Act may be 
used for any program of distributing sterile needles or syringes for 
the hypodermic injection of any illegal drug.
    Sec. 808.  Nothing in this Act may be construed to prevent the 
Council or Mayor of the District of Columbia from addressing the issue 
of the provision of contraceptive coverage by health insurance plans, 
but it is the intent of Congress that any legislation enacted on such 
issue should include a ``conscience clause'' which provides exceptions 
for religious beliefs and moral convictions.
    Sec. 809. (a) None of the Federal funds contained in this Act may 
be used to enact or carry out any law, rule, or regulation to legalize 
or otherwise reduce penalties associated with the possession, use, or 
distribution of any schedule I substance under the Controlled 
Substances Act (21 U.S.C. 801 et seq.) or any tetrahydrocannabinols 
derivative for any purpose.
    (b) None of the funds contained in this Act may be used to enact or 
carry out any law, rule, or regulation to legalize or otherwise reduce 
penalties associated with the possession, use, or distribution of any 
schedule I substance under the Controlled Substances Act (21 U.S.C. 801 
et seq.) or any tetrahydrocannabinols derivative for recreational 
purposes.
    Sec. 810.  None of the funds appropriated under this Act shall be 
expended for any abortion except where the life of the mother would be 
endangered if the fetus were carried to term or where the pregnancy is 
the result of an act of rape or incest.
    Sec. 811. (a) No later than 30 calendar days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Chief Financial Officer for the District of 
Columbia shall submit to the appropriate committees of Congress, the 
Mayor, and the Council of the District of Columbia, a revised 
appropriated funds operating budget in the format of the budget that 
the District of Columbia government submitted pursuant to section 442 
of the District of Columbia Home Rule Act (D.C. Official Code, sec. 1-
204.42), for all agencies of the District of Columbia government for 
fiscal year 2015 that is in the total amount of the approved 
appropriation and that realigns all budgeted data for personal services 
and other-than-personal services, respectively, with anticipated actual 
expenditures.
    (b) This section shall apply only to an agency for which the Chief 
Financial Officer for the District of Columbia certifies that a 
reallocation is required to address unanticipated changes in program 
requirements.
    Sec. 812.  No later than 30 calendar days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Chief Financial Officer for the District of 
Columbia shall submit to the appropriate committees of Congress, the 
Mayor, and the Council for the District of Columbia, a revised 
appropriated funds operating budget for the District of Columbia Public 
Schools that aligns schools budgets to actual enrollment. The revised 
appropriated funds budget shall be in the format of the budget that the 
District of Columbia government submitted pursuant to section 442 of 
the District of Columbia Home Rule Act (D.C. Official Code, Sec. 1-
204.42).
    Sec. 813. (a) Amounts appropriated in this Act as operating funds 
may be transferred to the District of Columbia's enterprise and capital 
funds and such amounts, once transferred, shall retain appropriation 
authority consistent with the provisions of this Act.
    (b) The District of Columbia government is authorized to reprogram 
or transfer for operating expenses any local funds transferred or 
reprogrammed in this or the four prior fiscal years from operating 
funds to capital funds, and such amounts, once transferred or 
reprogrammed, shall retain appropriation authority consistent with the 
provisions of this Act.
    (c) The District of Columbia government may not transfer or 
reprogram for operating expenses any funds derived from bonds, notes, 
or other obligations issued for capital projects.
    Sec. 814.  None of the Federal funds appropriated in this Act shall 
remain available for obligation beyond the current fiscal year, nor may 
any be transferred to other appropriations, unless expressly so 
provided herein.
    Sec. 815.  Except as otherwise specifically provided by law or 
under this Act, not to exceed 50 percent of unobligated balances 
remaining available at the end of fiscal year 2015 from appropriations 
of Federal funds made available for salaries and expenses for fiscal 
year 2015 in this Act, shall remain available through September 30, 
2016, for each such account for the purposes authorized: Provided, That 
a request shall be submitted to the Committees on Appropriations of the 
House of Representatives and the Senate for approval prior to the 
expenditure of such funds: Provided further, That these requests shall 
be made in compliance with reprogramming guidelines outlined in section 
803 of this Act.
    Sec. 816. (a) During fiscal year 2016, during a period in which 
neither a District of Columbia continuing resolution or a regular 
District of Columbia appropriation bill is in effect, local funds are 
appropriated in the amount provided for any project or activity for 
which local funds are provided in the Fiscal Year 2016 Budget Request 
Act of 2015 as submitted to Congress (subject to any modifications 
enacted by the District of Columbia as of the beginning of the period 
during which this subsection is in effect) at the rate set forth by 
such Act.
    (b) Appropriations made by subsection (a) shall cease to be 
available--
            (1) during any period in which a District of Columbia 
        continuing resolution for fiscal year 2016 is in effect; or
            (2) upon the enactment into law of the regular District of 
        Columbia appropriation bill for fiscal year 2016.
    (c) An appropriation made by subsection (a) is provided under the 
authority and conditions as provided under this Act and shall be 
available to the extent and in the manner that would be provided by 
this Act.
    (d) An appropriation made by subsection (a) shall cover all 
obligations or expenditures incurred for such project or activity 
during the portion of fiscal year 2016 for which this section applies 
to such project or activity.
    (e) This section shall not apply to a project or activity during 
any period of fiscal year 2016 if any other provision of law (other 
than an authorization of appropriations)--
            (1) makes an appropriation, makes funds available, or 
        grants authority for such project or activity to continue for 
        such period; or
            (2) specifically provides that no appropriation shall be 
        made, no funds shall be made available, or no authority shall 
        be granted for such project or activity to continue for such 
        period.
    (f) Nothing in this section shall be construed to affect 
obligations of the government of the District of Columbia mandated by 
other law.
    Sec. 817.  Except as expressly provided otherwise, any reference to 
``this Act'' contained in this title or in title IV shall be treated as 
referring only to the provisions of this title or of title IV.

                                TITLE IX

                     ADDITIONAL GENERAL PROVISIONS

    Sec. 901. (a) No funds appropriated by this Act shall be available 
to pay for an abortion or the administrative expenses in connection 
with a multi-State qualified health plan offered under a contract under 
section 1334 of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (42 
U.S.C. 18054) which provides any benefits or coverage for abortions.
    (b) The provision of subsection (a) shall not apply where the life 
of the mother would be endangered if the fetus were carried to term, or 
the pregnancy is the result of an act of rape or incest.

                       spending reduction account

    Sec. 902.  The amount by which the applicable allocation of new 
budget authority made by the Committee on Appropriations of the House 
of Representatives under section 302(b) of the Congressional Budget Act 
of 1974 exceeds the amount of proposed new budget authority is $0 
(increased by $1,750,000) (increased by $353,000,000) (increased by 
$788,111,800) (increased by $2,000,000).
    Sec. 903.  The amount otherwise provided by this Act for ``National 
Security Council and Homeland Security Council--Salaries and Expenses'' 
for the National Security Council is hereby reduced by $4,200,000.
    Sec. 904.  None of the funds made available by this Act may be used 
to enter into any contract with an incorporated entity if such entity's 
sealed bid or competitive proposal shows that such entity is 
incorporated or chartered in Bermuda or the Cayman Islands, and such 
entity's sealed bid or competitive proposal shows that such entity was 
previously incorporated in the United States.
    Sec. 905.  None of the funds made available by this Act may be used 
to reinstall the Red Mountain sculpture on the plaza of the Hugo Black 
Courthouse in Birmingham, Alabama.
    Sec. 906.  None of the funds made available in this Act may be used 
to enter into a contract with any person whose disclosures of a 
proceeding with a disposition listed in section 2313(c)(1) of title 41, 
United States Code, in the Federal Awardee Performance and Integrity 
Information System include the term ``Fair Labor Standards Act.''.
    Sec. 907.  None of the funds made available in this Act may be used 
to modify or rebuild any portion of the White House bowling alley, 
including using phenolic synthetic material.
    Sec. 908.  None of the funds made available by this Act may be used 
to enter into a contract with any offeror or any of its principals if 
the offeror certifies, as required by Federal Acquisition Regulation, 
that the offeror or any of its principals--
            (1) within a 3-year period preceding this offer has been 
        convicted of or had a civil judgment rendered against it for: 
        (A) commission of fraud or a criminal offense in connection 
        with obtaining, attempting to obtain, or performing a public 
        (Federal, State, or local) contract or subcontract; (B) 
        violation of Federal or State antitrust statutes relating to 
        the submission of offers; or (C) commission of embezzlement, 
        theft, forgery, bribery, falsification or destruction of 
        records, making false statements, tax evasion, violating 
        Federal criminal tax laws, or receiving stolen property;
            (2) are presently indicted for, or otherwise criminally or 
        civilly charged by a governmental entity with, commission of 
        any of the offenses enumerated above in paragraph (1); or
            (3) within a 3-year period preceding this offer, has been 
        notified of any delinquent Federal taxes in an amount that 
        exceeds $3,000 for which the liability remains unsatisfied.
    Sec. 909.  None of the funds made available in this Act may be used 
in contravention of chapter 29, 31, or 33 of title 44, United States 
Code.
    Sec. 910.  None of the funds in this Act may be available for the 
Office of Management and Budget to process or approve an apportionment 
request that does not include the following phrase: ``Apportioned 
amounts are not available for any position that is held by an employee 
with respect to whom the President of the Senate or the Speaker of the 
House of Representatives has certified a statement of facts to a United 
States attorney under section 104 of the Revised Statutes (2 U.S.C. 
194).''.
    Sec. 911.  None of the funds made available by this Act may be used 
in contravention of section 6103 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 
(relating to confidentiality and disclosure of returns and return 
information).
    Sec. 912.  None of the funds made available by this Act may be used 
to lease or purchase new light duty vehicles for any executive fleet, 
or for an agency's fleet inventory, except in accordance with 
Presidential Memorandum--Federal Fleet Performance, dated May 24, 2011.
    Sec. 913.  None of the funds made available by this Act may be used 
to--
            (1) designate any nonbank financial company as ``too big to 
        fail'';
            (2) designate any nonbank financial company as a 
        ``systemically important financial institution''; or
            (3) make a determination that material financial distress 
        at a nonbank financial company, or the nature, scope, size, 
        scale, concentration, interconnectedness, or mix of the 
        activities of such company, could pose a threat to the 
        financial stability of the United States.
    Sec. 914.  None of the funds made available in this Act may be used 
to study, promulgate, draft, review, implement, or enforce any rule 
pursuant to section 913 of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and 
Consumer Protection Act or amendments made by such section.
    Sec. 915.  None of the funds made available by this Act may be used 
to pay a performance award under section 5384 of title 5, United States 
Code, to any employee of the Internal Revenue Service.
    Sec. 916.  None of the funds made available in this Act may be 
used, with respect to the States of Alabama, Alaska, Arizona, 
California, Colorado, Connecticut, Delaware, Florida, Hawaii, Illinois, 
Iowa, Kentucky, Maine, Maryland, Massachusetts, Michigan, Minnesota, 
Mississippi, Missouri, Montana, Nevada, New Hampshire, New Jersey, New 
Mexico, New York, North Carolina, Oregon, Rhode Island, South Carolina, 
Tennessee, Utah, Vermont, Washington, or Wisconsin or the District of 
Columbia, to penalize a financial institution solely because the 
institution provides financial services to an entity that is a 
manufacturer, producer, or a person that participates in any business 
or organized activity that involves handling marijuana or marijuana 
products and engages in such activity pursuant to a law established by 
a State or a unit of local government.
    Sec. 917.  None of the funds made available by this Act may be used 
by the Internal Revenue Service to create machine-readable materials 
that are not subject to the safeguards established pursuant to section 
3105 of title 44, United States Code.
    Sec. 918.  None of funds made available by this Act to the Internal 
Revenue Service may be obligated or expended on conferences.
    Sec. 919.  None of the funds made available in this Act may be used 
to provide funds from the Hardest Hit Fund program established by the 
Secretary of the Treasury under title I of the Emergency Economic 
Stabilization Act of 2008 (12 U.S.C. 5211 et seq.) to any State or 
local government for the purpose of funding pension obligations of such 
State or local government.
    Sec. 920.  None of the funds made available in this Act to the 
Federal Communications Commission may be used, with respect to the 
States of Alabama, Arkansas, California, Colorado, Florida, Louisiana, 
Michigan, Minnesota, Missouri, Nebraska, Nevada, North Carolina, 
Pennsylvania, South Carolina, Tennessee, Texas, Utah, Virginia, 
Washington, and Wisconsin, to prevent such States from implementing 
their own State laws with respect to the provision of broadband 
Internet access service (as defined in section 8.11 of title 47, Code 
of Federal Regulations) by the State or a municipality or other 
political subdivision of the State.
    Sec. 921.  None of the funds made available by this Act may be used 
by the Consumer Product Safety Commission to finalize, implement, or 
enforce the proposed rule entitled ``Voluntary Remedial Actions and 
Guidelines for Voluntary Recall Notices'' (CPSC Docket No. CPSC-2013-
0040).
    Sec. 922.  None of the funds made available by this Act, including 
amounts made available under titles IV or VIII, may be used by any 
authority of the government of the District of Columbia to enforce any 
provision of the Firearms Registration Amendment Act of 2008 (D.C. Law 
17-372), the Inoperable Pistol Amendment Act of 2008 (D.C. Law 17-388), 
the Firearms Amendment Act of 2012 (D.C. Law 19-170), or the 
Administrative Disposition for Weapons Offenses Amendment Act of 2012 
(D.C. Law 19-295).
    This Act may be cited as the ``Financial Services and General 
Government Appropriations Act, 2015''.

            Passed the House of Representatives July 16, 2014.

            Attest:

                                                 KAREN L. HAAS,

                                                                 Clerk.
