
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 5290 Introduced in House (IH)]

113th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                H. R. 5290

  To establish a Military Community Infrastructure Program to provide 
   grants for transportation infrastructure improvements in military 
                  communities, and for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                             July 30, 2014

    Mr. Heck of Washington (for himself, Mr. Jones, and Mr. Kilmer) 
 introduced the following bill; which was referred to the Committee on 
                             Armed Services

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
  To establish a Military Community Infrastructure Program to provide 
   grants for transportation infrastructure improvements in military 
                  communities, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Creating Opportunities for Military 
Members to Use Transportation Efficiently Act of 2014'' or the 
``COMMUTE Act of 2014''.

SEC. 2. MILITARY COMMUNITY INFRASTRUCTURE PROGRAM.

    (a) Establishment.--Not later than 6 months after the date of 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall establish a Military 
Community Infrastructure Program under which the Secretary may provide 
grants to eligible entities for transportation infrastructure 
improvement projects in military communities.
    (b) Application.--To be eligible for a grant under the Program, an 
eligible entity shall submit to the Secretary an application at such 
time, in such form, and containing such information as the Secretary 
may require.
    (c) Eligible Projects.--
            (1) In general.--Grants awarded under the Program may be 
        used for transportation infrastructure improvement projects, 
        including--
                    (A) the construction of roads;
                    (B) the construction of mass transit and parking 
                facilities;
                    (C) the construction of, or upgrades to, pedestrian 
                access and bicycle access; and
                    (D) upgrades to public transportation systems.
            (2) Location.--To be eligible for a grant under the 
        Program, a project described in paragraph (1) shall be--
                    (A) related to improving access to a military 
                installation, as determined by the Secretary; and
                    (B) in a location that is--
                            (i) within or abutting an urbanized area 
                        (as designated by the Bureau of the Census); 
                        and
                            (ii) designated as a growth community by 
                        the Office of Economic Adjustment.
    (d) Considerations.--In awarding grants under the Program, the 
Secretary shall give consideration to--
            (1) the magnitude of the problem addressed by the project;
            (2) the proportion of the problem addressed by the project 
        that is caused by military installation growth since the year 
        2000;
            (3) the number of servicemembers and civilian employees of 
        the Department of Defense affected by the problem addressed by 
        the project;
            (4) the size of the community affected by the problem 
        addressed by the project;
            (5) the ability of the relevant eligible entity to execute 
        the project; and
            (6) the extent to which the project resolves the 
        transportation problem addressed.
    (e) Federal Share.--The Federal share of the cost of a project 
carried out using grant amounts made available under the Program may 
not exceed 80 percent.

SEC. 3. TRAFFIC IMPACT STUDY.

    (a) In General.--Not later than 1 year after the date of enactment 
of this Act, the Secretary shall conduct a traffic impact study for any 
urbanized area (as designated by the Bureau of the Census) that expects 
a significant increase in traffic related to a military installation 
within or abutting the urbanized area.
    (b) Contents.--A traffic impact study under subsection (a) shall 
determine any transportation improvements needed because of an increase 
in the number of military personnel, including study of commute sheds 
affected by installation-related traffic.
    (c) Consultation.--In developing a traffic impact study under 
subsection (a), the Secretary shall consult with--
            (1) the metropolitan planning organization or regional 
        transportation planning organization with jurisdiction over the 
        urbanized area; and
            (2) the commander of the appropriate military installation.

SEC. 4. DEFINITIONS.

    In this Act:
            (1) Eligible entity.--The term ``eligible entity'' means--
                    (A) a State or political subdivision thereof;
                    (B) an owner or operator of public transportation;
                    (C) a local governmental authority (as such term is 
                defined in section 5302 of title 49, United States 
                Code);
                    (D) a metropolitan planning organization; or
                    (E) a regional transportation planning 
                organization.
            (2) Metropolitan planning organization and regional 
        transportation planning organization.--The terms ``metropolitan 
        planning organization'' and ``regional transportation planning 
        organization'' have the meanings given those terms in section 
        134(b) of title 23, United States Code.
            (3) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary 
        of Defense, acting through the Director of the Office of 
        Economic Adjustment.
            (4) State.--The term ``State'' means each of the several 
        States, the District of Columbia, and any territory or 
        possession of the United States.

SEC. 5. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.

    There is authorized to be appropriated, to carry out this Act, 
$200,000,000 for fiscal year 2015 and $100,000,000 for each of fiscal 
years 2016 through 2019, to remain available until expended.
                                 <all>
