
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 4225 Reported in House (RH)]

                                                 Union Calendar No. 333
113th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                H. R. 4225

                          [Report No. 113-451]

    To amend title 18, United States Code, to provide a penalty for 
 knowingly selling advertising that offers certain commercial sex acts.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                             March 13, 2014

 Mrs. Wagner introduced the following bill; which was referred to the 
                       Committee on the Judiciary

                              May 15, 2014

 Additional sponsors: Mrs. Noem, Mrs. Ellmers, Mr. Wolf, Mr. Smith of 
New Jersey, Mrs. Miller of Michigan, Mr. Rodney Davis of Illinois, Mr. 
      Paulsen, Mr. Franks of Arizona, Mr. Long, Mr. Coffman, Mr. 
 Sensenbrenner, Mr. Southerland, Mr. Lankford, Mr. Cotton, Mr. Lance, 
    Mrs. Black, Mr. Weber of Texas, Mr. Gibson, Mr. Pittenger, Mrs. 
Bachmann, Mr. Roskam, Mr. Kline, Ms. Bass, Mr. Stivers, Mr. Mullin, Ms. 
 Jenkins, Mrs. McMorris Rodgers, Mrs. Capito, Mr. McCaul, Mr. Hudson, 
Mr. Nugent, Mr. Jolly, Mr. Shimkus, Mr. Forbes, Mr. Latta, Mrs. Beatty, 
  Mr. Ross, Mr. Gibbs, Mrs. Hartzler, Mr. LaMalfa, Mr. Boustany, Mr. 
Farenthold, Mr. McHenry, Mr. Frelinghuysen, Mrs. Brooks of Indiana, Mr. 
Holding, Mr. Smith of Missouri, Mr. Yoho, Mr. Webster of Florida, Mrs. 
Lummis, Mrs. Roby, Mr. Poe of Texas, Mr. Reichert, Mr. Luetkemeyer, Mr. 
Graves of Missouri, Mr. Clay, Mr. Schock, Mr. Stewart, Mr. Rothfus, Mr. 
     Walberg, Mrs. Blackburn, Ms. Granger, Mr. Barr, Mr. Murphy of 
  Pennsylvania, Ms. Jackson Lee, Mr. Pearce, Ms. Herrera Beutler, Mr. 
  Neugebauer, Mr. Cramer, Mrs. Walorski, Ms. Kuster, Mr. Palazzo, Ms. 
 Kelly of Illinois, Mr. Latham, Mr. Joyce, Ms. Esty, Mrs. Bustos, Ms. 
    Clark of Massachusetts, Ms. Frankel of Florida, Ms. Titus, Mrs. 
Kirkpatrick, Ms. Sinema, Ms. Moore, Ms. Castor of Florida, Ms. Brownley 
   of California, Ms. Meng, Mrs. Carolyn B. Maloney of New York, Mr. 
 Barletta, Mr. Gosar, Mr. LoBiondo, Mr. Diaz-Balart, and Mr. Peters of 
                               California

                              May 15, 2014

  Reported with an amendment, committed to the Committee of the Whole 
       House on the State of the Union, and ordered to be printed
 [Strike out all after the enacting clause and insert the part printed 
                               in italic]

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
    To amend title 18, United States Code, to provide a penalty for 
 knowingly selling advertising that offers certain commercial sex acts.


 


    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

<DELETED>SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.</DELETED>

<DELETED>    This Act may be cited as the ``Stop Advertising Victims of 
Exploitation Act of 2014'' or the ``SAVE Act of 2014''.</DELETED>

<DELETED>SEC. 2. ADVERTISING THAT OFFERS CERTAIN COMMERCIAL SEX 
              ACTS.</DELETED>

<DELETED>``Sec. 1591A. Advertising that offers certain commercial sex 
              acts</DELETED>
<DELETED>    ``(a) Offense.--Whoever, in or affecting interstate or 
foreign commerce, knowingly benefits financially from, receives 
anything of value from, or distributes advertising that offers a 
commercial sex act in a manner prohibited under section 1591, shall be 
fined under this title, imprisoned not more than 5 years, or 
both.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    ``(b) Definitions.--In this section, the terms have the 
meanings given those terms in section 1591.''.</DELETED>

<DELETED>SEC. 3. EXTRA-TERRITORIAL JURISDICTION.</DELETED>

<DELETED>    Section 1596 of title 18, United States Code, is amended 
by striking ``or 1591'' and inserting ``1591, or 1591A''.</DELETED>

<DELETED>SEC. 4. CLERICAL AMENDMENT.</DELETED>

<DELETED>    The table of sections at the beginning of chapter 77 of 
title 18, United States Code, is amended by inserting after the item 
relating to section 1591 the following:</DELETED>

<DELETED>``1591A. Advertising that offers certain commercial sex 
                            acts.''.

</DELETED>SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Stop Advertising Victims of 
Exploitation Act of 2014'' or the ``SAVE Act of 2014''.

SEC. 2. ADVERTISING THAT OFFERS CERTAIN COMMERCIAL SEX ACTS.

    (a) In General.--Section 1591 of title 18, United States Code, is 
amended in subsection (a)(1), by inserting after ``obtains,'' the 
following: ``advertises,''.
    (b) Mens Rea Requirement.--Section 1591 of title 18, United States 
Code, is amended in subsection (a), by inserting after ``knowing, or'' 
the following: ``, except where, in an offense under paragraph (2), the 
act constituting the violation of paragraph (1) is advertising,''.
    (c) Conforming Amendments.--Section 1591(b) of title 18, United 
States Code, is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (1), by striking ``or obtained'' and 
        inserting ``obtained, or advertised''; and
            (2) in paragraph (2), by striking ``or obtained'' and 
        inserting ``obtained, or advertised''.
                                                 Union Calendar No. 333

113th CONGRESS

  2d Session

                               H. R. 4225

                          [Report No. 113-451]

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL

    To amend title 18, United States Code, to provide a penalty for 
 knowingly selling advertising that offers certain commercial sex acts.

_______________________________________________________________________

                              May 15, 2014

  Reported with an amendment, committed to the Committee of the Whole 
       House on the State of the Union, and ordered to be printed
