
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 4636 Introduced in House (IH)]

113th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                H. R. 4636

 To amend the Child Abuse Prevention and Treatment Act to allow State 
child protective services systems better to serve the needs of children 
        who are victims of trafficking, and for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                              May 9, 2014

 Ms. Bass (for herself, Mr. McDermott, Mr. Marino, Ms. Slaughter, and 
Mrs. Bachmann) introduced the following bill; which was referred to the 
                Committee on Education and the Workforce

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
 To amend the Child Abuse Prevention and Treatment Act to allow State 
child protective services systems better to serve the needs of children 
        who are victims of trafficking, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Strengthening the Child Welfare 
Response to Trafficking Act of 2014''.

SEC. 2. STATE PLANS TO SERVE CHILD VICTIMS OF TRAFFICKING.

    (a) In General.--Section 106 of the Child Abuse Prevention and 
Treatment Act (42 U.S.C. 5106a) is amended--
            (1) in subsection (b)(2)(B)--
                    (A) in clause (xxii), by striking ``and'' at the 
                end; and
                    (B) by adding at the end the following:
                            ``(xxiv) provisions and procedures to 
                        identify and assess reports involving child 
                        trafficking (as described in section 103(15) of 
                        the Trafficking Victims Protection Act of 2000 
                        (22 U.S.C. 7102(15))); and
                            ``(xxv) provisions and procedures for 
                        training child protective services workers 
                        about identifying children who are victims 
                        described in clause (xxiv) and services 
                        available to address their needs, including 
                        those provided by State law enforcement, 
                        juvenile justice, and social service agencies 
                        such as runaway and homeless youth shelters to 
                        serve this population; and''; and
            (2) in subsection (d), by adding at the end the following:
            ``(17) The number of children determined to be a victim of 
        each type of trafficking described in subparagraphs (A) and (B) 
        of section 103(9) of the Trafficking Victims Protection Act of 
        2000 (22 U.S.C. 7102(9)).''.
    (b) Special Rule.--Section 111 of the Child Abuse Prevention and 
Treatment Act (42 U.S.C. 5106g) is amended--
            (1) by striking ``For purposes'' and inserting the 
        following:
    ``(a) Definitions.--For purposes''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following:
    ``(b) Special Rule.--For purposes of section 3(2) and subsection 
(a)(4), a child shall be considered a victim of `child abuse and 
neglect' if the child is identified, by a State or local agency 
employee of the State or locality involved, as a victim of trafficking 
(as described in section 103(15) of the Trafficking Victims Protection 
Act of 2000 (22 U.S.C. 7102(15))).''.

SEC. 3. EFFECTIVE DATE.

    (a) In General.--Except as otherwise provided in this section, the 
amendments made by this Act shall take effect on the date that is 1 
year after the date of the enactment of this Act.
    (b) Delay Permitted if State Legislation Required.--In the case of 
an approved State plan under section 106(b) of the Child Abuse 
Prevention and Treatment Act (42 U.S.C. 5106a(b)) which the Secretary 
of Health and Human Services determines requires State legislation 
(other than legislation appropriating funds) in order for the plan to 
meet the additional requirements imposed by this Act, the State plan 
shall not be regarded as failing to comply with the requirements of 
such section solely on the basis of the failure of the plan to meet 
such additional requirements before the 1st day of the 1st calendar 
quarter beginning after the close of the 1st regular session of the 
State legislature that ends after the 1-year period beginning with the 
date of the enactment of this Act. For purposes of the preceding 
sentence, in the case of a State that has a 2-year legislative session, 
each year of the session is deemed to be a separate regular session of 
the State legislature.
                                 <all>
