
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 4516 Introduced in House (IH)]

113th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                H. R. 4516

  To expedite and oversee the implementation of the women in service 
              implementation plan, and for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                             April 29, 2014

Ms. Loretta Sanchez of California introduced the following bill; which 
            was referred to the Committee on Armed Services

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
  To expedite and oversee the implementation of the women in service 
              implementation plan, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``She Is Ready Act''.

SEC. 2. FINDINGS.

    Congress makes the following findings:
            (1) On January 24, 2013, Secretary of Defense Leon Panetta 
        and Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff Martin Dempsey 
        rescinded the 1994 Direct Ground Combat Definition and 
        Assignment Rule and directed the Armed Forces to open closed 
        occupations, positions, and units to female members of the 
        Armed Forces no later than January 1, 2016.
            (2) The rescission of the 1994 policy was based on the 
        knowledge that success in the Armed Forces results solely from 
        a member's ability, qualifications, and performance, and the 
        decision to rescind the policy is consistent with America's 
        values and enhances military readiness.
            (3) The change in policy is reflective of the ``on the 
        ground'' reality that female members of the Armed Forces, 
        particularly in Iraq and Afghanistan, have been serving in 
        combat.
            (4) A directive from the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of 
        Staff requires the development, review, and validation of 
        gender-neutral occupational standards ``reflecting the 
        knowledge, skills and abilities necessary for each occupation'' 
        to be used to assess and assign members not later than 
        September 2015.
            (5) There are concerns in regards to the lack of 
        transparency and the type of research the Armed Forces are 
        planning and pursuing in opening closed occupations, positions, 
        and units to female members of the Armed Forces.
            (6) The largest number of closed occupations, positions, 
        and units are in the Army and Marine Corps. The Department of 
        Defense announced its intention, pursuant to the January 2013 
        Directives, to open for assignment of female members of the 
        Armed Forces thousands of previously closed positions and 
        units, but thousands of positions and units remain closed 
        female members of the Armed Forces.

SEC. 3. REMOVAL OF ARTIFICIAL BARRIERS TO THE SERVICE OF WOMEN IN THE 
              ARMED FORCES.

    (a) Prompt Assignment.--
            (1) Cadre or critical mass not required.--The Secretaries 
        of the military departments shall not unduly delay the 
        assignment of female members of the Armed Forces to military 
        occupational specialties, positions, and units because of the 
        absence of a cadre or critical mass of female members available 
        for such assignment.
            (2) Open occupation precedence.--As soon as possible after 
        the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense 
        shall direct the Secretaries of the military departments to 
        open for assignment of women to all positions in occupations 
        that, on or after the date of the enactment of this Act, are 
        open to female members of the Armed Forces in any unit of the 
        Armed Forces.
    (b) Validation and Oversight of Gender-Neutral Occupational 
Standards.--
            (1) Validation; purpose.--As soon as possible after the 
        date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense 
        shall direct the Secretary of each military department to 
        validate the gender-neutral occupational standards used by the 
        Armed Forces under the jurisdiction of that Secretary for the 
        purpose of ensuring that the standards--
                    (A) are consistent with section 543 of the National 
                Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 1994 (Public 
                Law 103-160; 10 U.S.C. 113 note), as amended by section 
                523 of the National Defense Authorization Act for 
                Fiscal Year 2014 (Public Law 113-66; 127 Stat. 756), 
                which requires gender-neutral occupational standards, 
                requiring performance outcome-based standards for the 
                successful accomplishment of the necessary and required 
                specific tasks associated with the qualifications and 
                duties performed;
                    (B) accurately predict performance of actual, 
                regular, and recurring duties of a military occupation; 
                and
                    (C) are applied equitably to measure individual 
                capabilities.
            (2) Role of independent research entity.--The Secretaries 
        of the military departments shall work with an independent 
        research entity to comply with paragraph (1).

SEC. 4. IMPROVED LEADERSHIP AND RESPONSIVENESS IN IMPLEMENTATION OF THE 
              WOMEN IN SERVICE IMPLEMENTATION PLAN.

    (a) Transparency and Goals.--The Secretary of Defense shall direct 
the Secretaries of the military departments to provide greater 
transparency of its women in service implementation plan, ensure that a 
statement of administration policy is created to reflect the mission of 
the implementation plan and its intent on responsibly opening all jobs, 
positions and units to female members of the Armed Forces.
    (b) Response and Notice of Openings.--The Office of the Secretary 
of Defense shall promptly respond whenever the Secretary of a military 
department submits a notice of newly opened jobs, positions, of units 
to female members of the Armed Forces and avoid any delays in 
transmitting such notices to Congress.
    (c) Final Deadline.--The Secretary of Defense shall ensure all 
closed positions and units are open to female members of the Armed 
Forces no later than January 1, 2016, consistent with the Joint 
Memorandum issued on January 24, 2013, regarding the elimination of the 
1994 Direct Ground Combat Definition and Assignment Rule.

SEC. 5. EFFECTIVE EVALUATION OF PHYSICAL STANDARDS AND OVERSIGHT OF 
              ARMED FORCES IMPLEMENTATION PLANS.

    (a) Navy and Marine Corps.--
            (1) Validation of physical standards.--As soon as possible 
        after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of 
        the Navy shall provide Congress with information on what 
        process and metrics were used to validate the physical 
        standards applicable to members of the Navy and the Marine 
        Corps.
            (2) Infantry training courses.--Not later than 30 days 
        after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of 
        the Navy shall provide Congress with information in regards to 
        the Marine Corps research involving female members of the 
        Marine Corps who volunteer for the Infantry Officers Course 
        (IOC), the enlisted infantry training course (ITB), and the 
        Ground Combat Element Experimental Task Force (GCEXTF) for the 
        purpose of--
                    (A) determining what metrics the Marine Corps used 
                to develop the research requirements and elements for 
                the Marine Corps Expanded Entry-Level Training 
                Research;
                    (B) indicating what is being evaluated during these 
                research studies, along with how long both research 
                studies will last;
                    (C) identifying how data gathered during the 
                research studies will be used to open infantry and 
                other closed occupations; and
                    (D) assuring that infantry and other closed 
                occupations will not remain closed based on physical 
                tests that have not been validated or any other 
                improper evaluation mechanisms.
            (3) Enlisted infantry course graduates.--Effective upon the 
        enactment of this Act, any female member of the Marine Corps 
        who graduates from the enlisted infantry course shall be 
        eligible for assignment to an infantry occupational specialty.
    (b) Army.--Effective upon the enactment of this Act, the Secretary 
of the Army shall permit female members of the Army to apply to Army 
Ranger School as Ranger School is not solely intended for members of 
the Army who plan to join the Ranger Regiment, but is also intended to 
provide leadership training opportunities that members can utilize in 
all jobs, positions, and units.
    (c) Special Operations Command.--The Secretary of Defense shall 
direct the Special Operations Command to submit to Congress, not later 
than 90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the type of 
approach and methodology it will be using for the integration of women 
into the Special Operations Forces.

SEC. 6. FEMALE PERSONAL PROTECTION GEAR.

    The Secretary of Defense shall direct each Secretary of a military 
department to take immediate steps to ensure that properly designed and 
fitted combat equipment is available and distributed to female members 
of the Armed Forces under the jurisdiction of that Secretary.

SEC. 7. REVIEW OF OUTREACH AND RECRUITMENT EFFORTS FOCUSED ON OFFICERS.

    (a) Review Required.--The Comptroller General of the United States 
shall conduct a review of Services' Outreach and Recruitment Efforts 
gauged toward women representation in the officer corps.
    (b) Elements of Review.--In conducting the review under subsection 
(a), the Secretary of Defense shall--
            (1) identify and evaluate current initiatives the Armed 
        Forces are using to increase accession of women into the 
        officer corps;
            (2) identify new recruiting efforts to increase accessions 
        of women into the officer corps specifically at the military 
        service academies, Officer Candidate Schools, Officer Training 
        Schools, the Academy of Military Science, and Reserve Officer 
        Training Corps; and
            (3) identify efforts, resources, and funding required to 
        increase military service academy accession by an additional 20 
        percent by the end of the four-year period beginning on the 
        date of the enactment of this Act.
    (c) Submission of Results.--Not later than 90 days after the date 
of the enactment of this Act, the Comptroller General shall submit to 
Congress a report containing the results of the review under subsection 
(a).
                                 <all>
