
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[S. 1947 Introduced in Senate (IS)]

113th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                S. 1947

  To rename the Government Printing Office the Government Publishing 
                    Office, and for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                            January 16, 2014

Ms. Klobuchar (for herself and Mr. Chambliss) introduced the following 
 bill; which was read twice and referred to the Committee on Rules and 
                             Administration

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
  To rename the Government Printing Office the Government Publishing 
                    Office, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Government Publishing Office Act of 
2014''.

SEC. 2. REDESIGNATION OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE TO GOVERNMENT 
              PUBLISHING OFFICE.

    (a) In General.--The Government Printing Office is hereby 
redesignated the Government Publishing Office.
    (b) References.--Any reference to the Government Printing Office in 
any law, rule, regulation, certificate, directive, instruction, or 
other official paper in force on the date of enactment of this Act 
shall be considered to refer and apply to the Government Publishing 
Office.

SEC. 3. REDESIGNATION OF PUBLIC PRINTER TO DIRECTOR OF THE GOVERNMENT 
              PUBLISHING OFFICE.

    (a) Title 44, United States Code.--Title 44, United States Code, is 
amended--
            (1) by striking ``Public Printer'' each place that term 
        appears and inserting ``Director of the Government Publishing 
        Office''; and
            (2) in the heading for each of sections 301, 302, 303, 304, 
        305, 306, 307, 502, 710, 1102, 1111, 1115, 1340, 1701, 1712, 
        and 1914, by striking ``public printer'' and inserting 
        ``director of the government publishing office''.
    (b) Other References.--Any reference in any law other than in title 
44, United States Code, or in any rule, regulation, certificate, 
directive, instruction, or other official paper in force on the date of 
enactment of this Act to the Public Printer shall be considered to 
refer and apply to the Director of the Government Publishing Office.

SEC. 4. REDESIGNATION OF DEPUTY PUBLIC PRINTER TO DEPUTY DIRECTOR OF 
              THE GOVERNMENT PUBLISHING OFFICE.

    (a) Title 44, United States Code.--Title 44, United States Code, is 
amended--
            (1) by striking ``Deputy Public Printer'' each place that 
        term appears and inserting ``Deputy Director of the Government 
        Publishing Office''; and
            (2) in the heading for each of sections 302 and 303, by 
        striking ``deputy public printer'' and inserting ``deputy 
        director of the government publishing office''.
    (b) Other References.--Any reference in any law other than in title 
44, United States Code, or in any rule, regulation, certificate, 
directive, instruction, or other official paper in force on the date of 
enactment of this Act to the Deputy Public Printer shall be considered 
to refer and apply to the Deputy Director of the Government Publishing 
Office.

SEC. 5. DIRECTOR REQUIREMENTS.

    Section 301 of title 44, United States Code, is amended--
            (1) in the first sentence, by striking ``, who must be a 
        practical printer and versed in the art of bookbinding,''; and
            (2) in the second sentence, by striking ``His'' and 
        inserting ``The''.

SEC. 6. DEPUTY DIRECTOR REQUIREMENTS.

    Section 302 of title 44, United States Code, is amended--
            (1) in the first sentence, by striking ``, who must be a 
        practical printer and versed in the art of bookbinding,''; and
            (2) in the second sentence--
                    (A) by striking ``He'' and inserting ``The Deputy 
                Director of the Government Publishing Office'';
                    (B) by striking ``perform the duties formerly 
                required of the chief clerk,'';
                    (C) by striking ``, and perform'' and inserting 
                ``and perform''; and
                    (D) by striking ``of him''.

SEC. 7. OTHER CONFORMING AMENDMENTS.

    Chapter 3 of title 44, United States Code is amended--
            (1) in the first sentence of section 304, by striking ``or 
        his'' and inserting ``or the Director's'';
            (2) in section 305(a)--
                    (A) by striking ``he considers'' and inserting 
                ``the Director considers''; and
                    (B) by striking ``He may not'' and inserting ``The 
                Director of the Government Publishing Office may not'';
            (3) in section 306, by striking ``his direction'' and 
        inserting ``the direction of the Director'';
            (4) in section 308--
                    (A) in subsection (b)(1)--
                            (i) by striking ``his accounts'' and 
                        inserting ``the accounts of the disbursing 
                        officer''; and
                            (ii) by striking ``his name'' and inserting 
                        ``the name of the disbursing officer'';
                    (B) in subsection (b)(2)--
                            (i) by striking ``his estate'' and 
                        inserting ``the estate of the disbursing 
                        officer'';
                            (ii) by striking ``to him'' and inserting 
                        ``to the deputy disbursing officer''; and
                            (iii) by striking ``his service'' and 
                        inserting ``the service of the deputy 
                        disbursing officer''; and
                    (C) in subsection (c)(1)--
                            (i) by striking ``by him'' and inserting 
                        ``by such officer or employee'';
                            (ii) by striking ``his discretion'' and 
                        inserting ``the discretion of the Comptroller 
                        General''; and
                            (iii) by striking ``whenever he'' each 
                        place that terms appears and inserting 
                        ``whenever the Comptroller General'';
            (5) in section 309--
                    (A) in the second sentence of subsection (a), by 
                striking ``by him'' and inserting ``by the Director''; 
                and
                    (B) in subsection (f), by striking ``his or her 
                discretion'' and inserting ``the discretion of the 
                Comptroller General'';
            (6) in section 310, by striking ``his written request'' and 
        inserting ``the written request of the Director'';
            (7) in section 311(b), by striking ``he justifies'' and 
        inserting ``the Director justifies'';
            (8) in section 312, by striking ``his service'' and 
        inserting ``the service of such officer''; and
            (9) in section 317, by striking ``his delegate'' and 
        inserting ``a delegate of the Director''.
                                 <all>
