
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 4274 Introduced in House (IH)]

113th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                H. R. 4274

To amend the Honoring the Families of Fallen Soldiers Act to provide a 
 permanent appropriation of funds for the payment of death gratuities 
for survivors of deceased members of the uniformed services in event of 
              any future period of lapsed appropriations.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                             March 18, 2014

  Mr. Barber introduced the following bill; which was referred to the 
                      Committee on Appropriations

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
To amend the Honoring the Families of Fallen Soldiers Act to provide a 
 permanent appropriation of funds for the payment of death gratuities 
for survivors of deceased members of the uniformed services in event of 
              any future period of lapsed appropriations.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. PERMANENT APPROPRIATION OF FUNDS FOR PAYMENT OF DEATH 
              GRATUITIES FOR SURVIVORS OF MEMBERS OF THE UNIFORMED 
              SERVICES IN EVENT OF A PERIOD OF LAPSED APPROPRIATIONS.

    (a) Appropriation.--The Department of Defense Survivor Benefits 
Continuing Appropriations Resolution, 2014 (also known as the Honoring 
the Families of Fallen Soldiers Act; Public Law 113-44; 127 Stat. 555) 
is amended--
            (1) in the matter preceding section 101--
                    (A) by striking ``of the Department of Defense''; 
                and
                    (B) by inserting after ``fiscal year 2014'' the 
                following: ``and, as provided in section 101(c), 
                subsequent fiscal years whenever there is a period of 
                lapsed appropriations''; and
            (2) in section 101, by adding at the end the following new 
        subsection:
    ``(c)(1) During any subsequent period of lapsed appropriations 
during a fiscal year, such amounts as may be necessary, at a rate for 
operations as provided for the most recent fiscal year for which an Act 
making appropriations for the uniformed services (as defined in section 
101(5) of title 37, United States Code) has been enacted and under the 
authority and conditions provided in such Act, for the accounts from 
which death gratuities are paid under sections 1475-1477 and 1489 of 
title 10, United States Code, for the purpose of making such death 
gratuity payments for survivors of deceased members of the uniformed 
services during the period of lapsed appropriations.
    ``(2) In paragraph (1) and section 103, the term `period of lapsed 
appropriations' means any period of time after the start of a fiscal 
year for which interim (other than pursuant to subsection (a) or 
paragraph (1)) or full-year appropriations for the accounts referred to 
in paragraph (1) are not in effect.''.
    (b) Duration.--Section 103 of the Department of Defense Survivor 
Benefits Continuing Appropriations Resolution, 2014 (also known as the 
Honoring the Families of Fallen Soldiers Act; Public Law 113-44) is 
amended to read as follows:
    ``Sec. 103.  Appropriations and funds made available and authority 
granted pursuant to section 101(c) of this joint resolution shall be 
available whenever there is a period of lapsed appropriations for the 
duration of the period of lapsed appropriations.''.
                                 <all>
