
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 471 Introduced in House (IH)]

113th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                H. R. 471

To provide for the more accurate computation of retirement benefits for 
        certain firefighters employed by the Federal Government.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                            February 4, 2013

 Mr. Connolly introduced the following bill; which was referred to the 
              Committee on Oversight and Government Reform

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
To provide for the more accurate computation of retirement benefits for 
        certain firefighters employed by the Federal Government.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Federal Firefighter Pay Equity 
Act''.

SEC. 2. FINDINGS AND PURPOSE.

    (a) Findings.--Congress finds that--
            (1) certain firefighters employed by the Federal Government 
        are required by law to work a regular tour of duty consisting 
        of 72 hours per week;
            (2) 19 of those 72 hours per week are considered to be 
        overtime hours for purposes of computing pay;
            (3) the pay computed for those 19 overtime hours each week 
        are not accurately accounted for when computing such 
        firefighters' retirement benefits; and
            (4) those inaccurate computations have led to reduced 
        retirement benefits for Federal firefighters.
    (b) Purpose.--The purpose of this Act is to correct the manner in 
which retirement benefits for Federal firefighters are computed so as 
to account for pay earned for regularly scheduled overtime hours during 
a normal tour of duty.

SEC. 3. COMPUTATION OF ANNUITY BASED ON CERTAIN FIREFIGHTER SERVICE.

    (a) In General.--Section 5545b of title 5, United States Code, is 
amended by adding at the end the following:
    ``(e) For purposes of any determination of `average pay' under 
section 8331(4) or 8401(3), in the case of a firefighter who is subject 
to subsection (b), the rate of basic pay in effect for such firefighter 
for a year of creditable service (or, in the case of an annuity under 
subsection (d) or (e)(1) of section 8341 or under chapter 84 based on 
less than 3 years of creditable service, for any other period of 
creditable service) shall, in addition to the amount determined under 
subsection (b) for such year (or other period), include an amount equal 
to one-half the firefighter's basic hourly rate (as computed under 
subsection (b)(1)(A)) for such year (or other period) times the number 
of overtime hours included as part of such firefighter's regular tour 
of duty during such year (or other period).''.
    (b) Conforming Amendments.--Sections 8331(4) and 8401(3) of title 
5, United States Code, are amended by striking the semicolon at the end 
and inserting ``, subject to section 5545b(e);''.

SEC. 4. EFFECTIVE DATE.

    The amendments made by this Act shall apply with respect to any 
annuity, entitlement to which is based on a separation from service 
occurring after the end of the 60-day period beginning on the date of 
the enactment of this Act.
                                 <all>
