
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[S. 61 Introduced in Senate (IS)]

113th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                 S. 61

  To include the Point Arena-Stornetta Public Lands in the California 
     Coastal National Monument as a part of the National Landscape 
              Conservation System, and for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

             January 22 (legislative day, January 3), 2013

 Mrs. Boxer (for herself and Mrs. Feinstein) introduced the following 
bill; which was read twice and referred to the Committee on Energy and 
                           Natural Resources

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
  To include the Point Arena-Stornetta Public Lands in the California 
     Coastal National Monument as a part of the National Landscape 
              Conservation System, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE; DEFINITIONS.

    (a) Short Title.--This Act may be cited as the ``California Coastal 
National Monument Expansion Act of 2013''.
    (b) Definitions.--In this Act:
            (1) Map.--The term ``map'' means the map created by the 
        Bureau of Land Management, entitled ``California Coastal 
        National Monument Addition'' and dated September 15, 2012.
            (2) Monument.--The term ``Monument'' means the California 
        Coastal National Monument established by Presidential 
        Proclamation 7264.
            (3) Point arena-stornetta public lands.--The term ``Point 
        Arena-Stornetta Public Lands'' means the Federal land 
        comprising approximately 1,255 acres in Mendocino County, 
        California, as generally depicted on the map.
            (4) Presidential proclamation 7264.--The term 
        ``Presidential Proclamation 7264'' means Presidential 
        Proclamation Number 7264, dated January 11, 2000 (65 Fed. Reg. 
        2821).
            (5) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary 
        of the Interior.

SEC. 2. FINDINGS; PURPOSE.

    (a) Findings.--Congress finds that--
            (1) the Point Arena-Stornetta Public Lands contain 
        significant natural resources, including important wildlife 
        habitat, several riparian corridors, extensive wetlands, ponds 
        and other water sources, cypress groves, meadows, and sand 
        dunes that should be preserved for present and future 
        generations;
            (2) the ocean and coastal ecosystems adjacent to the Point 
        Arena-Stornetta Public Lands are internationally recognized as 
        significant centers of coastal upwelling that support the 
        diverse, abundant, and productive marine ecosystems and 
        wildlife underlying the local economy and identity of coastal 
        communities;
            (3) the Point Arena-Stornetta Public Lands tell an 
        important story about the coastal prehistory and history of 
        California in the context of the surrounding region and 
        communities;
            (4) the coastal area surrounding the Point Arena-Stornetta 
        Public Lands was traditionally used by Indian people, including 
        the Pomo Indian tribes;
            (5) the Point Arena-Stornetta Public Lands are historically 
        associated with adjacent land managed for the enjoyment of 
        current and future generations, including the Arena Rock Marine 
        Natural Preserve, and Manchester Beach State Park;
            (6) the Point Arena-Stornetta Public Lands represent a 
        model partnership where future management can be successfully 
        accomplished among the Federal Government, State of California, 
        Mendocino County, local communities, and private groups;
            (7) permanent protection of the Point Arena-Stornetta 
        Public Lands will provide important economic benefits to 
        surrounding communities, and has broad public support;
            (8) the Point Arena-Stornetta Public Lands would make a 
        significant addition to the California Coastal National 
        Monument and National Landscape Conservation System 
        administered by the Bureau of Land Management of the Department 
        of the Interior; and
            (9) statutory protection is necessary to ensure that the 
        Point Arena-Stornetta Public Lands remain a part of the 
        historical, cultural, and natural heritage of the United States 
        and a source of inspiration for the people of the United 
        States.
    (b) Purpose.--The purpose of this Act is to protect, conserve, and 
enhance for the benefit and enjoyment of present and future generations 
the unique and nationally important historical, natural, cultural, 
scientific, educational, scenic, and recreational values of the Point 
Arena-Stornetta Public Lands, while allowing certain recreational and 
research activities to continue.

SEC. 3. EXPANSION OF CALIFORNIA COASTAL NATIONAL MONUMENT.

    (a) In General.--The boundary of the Monument established by 
Presidential Proclamation 7264 is expanded to include the Federal land 
shown on the map.
    (b) Map and Legal Description.--
            (1) In general.--As soon as practicable after the date of 
        enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall file with the 
        Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the Senate and the 
        Committee on Natural Resources of the House of Representatives 
        a map and boundary description of land added to the Monument by 
        this Act.
            (2) Force and effect.--The map and boundary description 
        filed under paragraph (1) shall have the same force and effect 
        as if included in this Act, except that the Secretary may 
        correct any minor errors in the map and boundary descriptions.
            (3) Availability of map and boundary description.--The map 
        and boundary description filed under paragraph (1) shall be on 
        file and available for public inspection in appropriate offices 
        of the Bureau of Land Management.

SEC. 4. ADMINISTRATION.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary shall manage the land added to the 
Monument by this Act--
            (1) as a part of the Monument; and
            (2) in accordance with Presidential Proclamation 7264.
    (b) Management Plan.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 2 years after the date of 
        enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall finalize an 
        amendment to the Monument management plan for the long-term 
        protection and management of the land added to the Monument by 
        this Act.
            (2) Requirements.--The plan amendment shall--
                    (A) be developed with an opportunity for full 
                public participation; and
                    (B) describe the appropriate uses and management of 
                the land consistent with this Act.
    (c) Motorized and Mechanized Transport.--Except as needed for 
emergency or authorized administrative purposes, the use of motorized 
and mechanized vehicles in the Monument shall be permitted only on 
roads and trails designated for that use.
    (d) Incorporation of Land and Interests.--
            (1) Authority.--The Secretary may acquire non-Federal land 
        or interests in land within or adjacent to the land added to 
        the Monument by this Act only through exchange, donation, or 
        purchase from a willing seller.
            (2) Management.--Any land or interests in land within or 
        adjacent to the land added to the Monument by this Act acquired 
        by the United States after the date of enactment of this Act 
        shall be added to and administered as part of the Monument.
    (e) Overflights.--Nothing in this Act--
            (1) restricts or precludes overflights, including low-level 
        overflights or military, commercial, and general aviation 
        overflights that can be seen or heard within the land added to 
        the Monument by this Act;
            (2) restricts or precludes the designation or creation of 
        new units of special use airspace or the establishment of 
        military flight training routes over the land added to the 
        Monument by this Act; or
            (3) modifies regulations governing low-level overflights 
        above the adjacent Gulf of the Farallones National Marine 
        Sanctuary.
    (f) Law Enforcement.--Nothing in this Act effects the law 
enforcement authorities of the Department of Homeland Security.
    (g) Native American Uses.--Nothing in this Act enlarges, 
diminishes, or modifies the rights of any Indian tribe or Indian 
religious community.
    (h) Buffer Zones.--
            (1) In general.--The expansion of the Monument is not 
        intended to lead to the establishment of protective perimeters 
        or buffer zones around the land included in the Monument by 
        this Act.
            (2) Activities outside the monument.--The fact that 
        activities outside the Monument can be seen or heard within the 
        land added to the Monument by this Act shall not, of itself, 
        preclude those activities or uses up to the boundary of the 
        Monument.
    (i) Grazing.--Nothing in this Act affects the grazing of livestock 
within the Point Arena-Stornetta Public Lands.
    (j) National Landscape Conservation System.--The Secretary shall 
manage the Monument as part of the National Landscape Conservation 
System.
                                 <all>
