
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[S. Res. 160 Agreed to Senate (ATS)]

113th CONGRESS
  1st Session
S. RES. 160

    Relative to the memorial observances of the Honorable Frank R. 
        Lautenberg, late a Senator from the State of New Jersey.


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                              June 4, 2013

 Mr. Reid submitted the following resolution; which was considered and 
                               agreed to

_______________________________________________________________________

                               RESOLUTION


 
    Relative to the memorial observances of the Honorable Frank R. 
        Lautenberg, late a Senator from the State of New Jersey.

Whereas, The Senate has heard with profound sorrow and deep regret the 
        announcement of the death of the Honorable Frank R. Lautenberg, late a 
        Senator from the State of New Jersey: Now, therefore, be it
    Resolved, That the memorial observances of the Honorable Frank R. 
Lautenberg, late a Senator from the State of New Jersey be held in the 
Senate Chamber on Thursday, June 6, 2013, beginning at 2:00 p.m., and 
that the Senate attend the same.
    Resolved, That paragraph 1 of Rule IV of the Rules for the 
Regulation of the Senate Wing of the United States Capitol (prohibiting 
the taking of pictures in the Senate Chamber) be temporarily suspended 
for the sole and specific purpose of permitting the Senate Photographic 
Studio to photograph this memorial observance.
    Resolved, That the Sergeant at Arms be directed to make necessary 
and appropriate arrangements in connection with the memorial 
observances in the Senate Chamber.
    Resolved, That the Secretary of the Senate communicate these 
resolutions to the House of Representatives, transmit an enrolled copy 
thereof to the family of the deceased, and invite the House of 
Representatives and the family of the deceased to attend the memorial 
observances in the Senate Chamber.
    Resolved, That invitations be extended to the President of the 
United States, the Vice President of the United States, and the members 
of the Cabinet, the Chief Justice and Associate Justices of the Supreme 
Court of the United States, the Diplomatic Corps (through the Secretary 
of State), the Chief of Staff of the Army, the Chief of Naval 
Operations of the Navy, the Major General Commandant of the Marine 
Corps, the Chief of Staff of the Air Force, and the Commandant of the 
Coast Guard to attend the memorial observances in the Senate Chamber.
                                 <all>
