
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 271 Placed on Calendar Senate (PCS)]

                                                        Calendar No. 82
113th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                H. R. 271


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                              May 23, 2013

                     Received; read the first time

                              June 3, 2013

            Read the second time and placed on the calendar

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 AN ACT


 
To clarify that compliance with an emergency order under section 202(c) 
   of the Federal Power Act may not be considered a violation of any 
Federal, State, or local environmental law or regulation, and for other 
                               purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Resolving Environmental and Grid 
Reliability Conflicts Act of 2013''.

SEC. 2. AMENDMENTS TO THE FEDERAL POWER ACT.

    (a) Compliance With or Violation of Environmental Laws While Under 
Emergency Order.--Section 202(c) of the Federal Power Act (16 U.S.C. 
824a(c)) is amended--
            (1) by inserting ``(1)'' after ``(c)''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following:
    ``(2) With respect to an order issued under this subsection that 
may result in a conflict with a requirement of any Federal, State, or 
local environmental law or regulation, the Commission shall ensure that 
such order requires generation, delivery, interchange, or transmission 
of electric energy only during hours necessary to meet the emergency 
and serve the public interest, and, to the maximum extent practicable, 
is consistent with any applicable Federal, State, or local 
environmental law or regulation and minimizes any adverse environmental 
impacts.
    ``(3) To the extent any omission or action taken by a party, that 
is necessary to comply with an order issued under this subsection, 
including any omission or action taken to voluntarily comply with such 
order, results in noncompliance with, or causes such party to not 
comply with, any Federal, State, or local environmental law or 
regulation, such omission or action shall not be considered a violation 
of such environmental law or regulation, or subject such party to any 
requirement, civil or criminal liability, or a citizen suit under such 
environmental law or regulation.
    ``(4)(A) An order issued under this subsection that may result in a 
conflict with a requirement of any Federal, State, or local 
environmental law or regulation shall expire not later than 90 days 
after it is issued. The Commission may renew or reissue such order 
pursuant to paragraphs (1) and (2) for subsequent periods, not to 
exceed 90 days for each period, as the Commission determines necessary 
to meet the emergency and serve the public interest.
    ``(B) In renewing or reissuing an order under subparagraph (A), the 
Commission shall consult with the primary Federal agency with expertise 
in the environmental interest protected by such law or regulation, and 
shall include in any such renewed or reissued order such conditions as 
such Federal agency determines necessary to minimize any adverse 
environmental impacts to the maximum extent practicable. The 
conditions, if any, submitted by such Federal agency shall be made 
available to the public. The Commission may exclude such a condition 
from the renewed or reissued order if it determines that such condition 
would prevent the order from adequately addressing the emergency 
necessitating such order and provides in the order, or otherwise makes 
publicly available, an explanation of such determination.''.
    (b) Temporary Connection or Construction by Municipalities.--
Section 202(d) of the Federal Power Act (16 U.S.C. 824a(d)) is amended 
by inserting ``or municipality'' before ``engaged in the transmission 
or sale of electric energy''.

            Passed the House of Representatives May 22, 2013.

            Attest:

                                                 KAREN L. HAAS,

                                                                 Clerk.
                                                        Calendar No. 82

113th CONGRESS

  1st Session

                               H. R. 271

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 AN ACT

To clarify that compliance with an emergency order under section 202(c) 
   of the Federal Power Act may not be considered a violation of any 
Federal, State, or local environmental law or regulation, and for other 
                               purposes.

_______________________________________________________________________

                              June 3, 2013

            Read the second time and placed on the calendar
