
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 2162 Introduced in House (IH)]

113th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                H. R. 2162

    To provide for transparency and reporting related to direct and 
  indirect costs incurred by the Bonneville Power Administration, the 
       Western Area Power Administration, the Southwestern Power 
 Administration, and the Southeastern Power Administration related to 
     compliance with any Federal environmental laws impacting the 
       conservation of fish and wildlife, and for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                              May 23, 2013

  Mr. Gosar introduced the following bill; which was referred to the 
                     Committee on Natural Resources

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
    To provide for transparency and reporting related to direct and 
  indirect costs incurred by the Bonneville Power Administration, the 
       Western Area Power Administration, the Southwestern Power 
 Administration, and the Southeastern Power Administration related to 
     compliance with any Federal environmental laws impacting the 
       conservation of fish and wildlife, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Environmental Compliance Cost 
Transparency Act of 2013''.

SEC. 2. TRANSPARENCY AND REPORTING.

    (a) Information Included in Monthly Billing to Power Customers.--
The Administrators of each of the Bonneville Power Administration, the 
Western Area Power Administration, the Southwestern Power 
Administration, and the Southeastern Power Administration shall include 
in monthly billings sent to each of their power customers information 
estimating and reporting the costs of the customer's share of the 
direct and indirect costs incurred by the administration related to 
compliance with any Federal environmental laws impacting the 
conservation of fish and wildlife considered by the Administrator 
concerned, at that Administrator's sole discretion after consultation 
with consumers, to be relevant.
    (b) Direct Costs.--Direct costs reported under this section shall 
include Federal agency obligations related to costs of studies; 
capital, operation, maintenance, and replacement costs; and staffing 
costs.
    (c) Indirect Costs.--Indirect costs reported under this section 
shall include foregone generation and replacement power costs, 
including the net costs of any transmission.
    (d) Coordination.--The Commissioner of the Bureau of Reclamation 
and the head of any other affected Federal agency shall assist the 
Administrators with the identification of the costs.
    (e) Report.--No later than January 30 of each year, each of the 
Administrators referred to in subsection (a), in coordination with the 
Bureau of Reclamation and other affected Federal agencies, shall 
provide an annual report to the appropriate committees of the House of 
Representatives and the Senate estimating the total of the direct and 
indirect costs incurred by the administration related to compliance 
with any Federal environmental laws impacting the conservation of fish 
and wildlife, the sources of replacement power, and costs related to 
integrating wind energy resources considered by the Administrator 
concerned, at that Administrator's sole discretion after consultation 
with consumers, to be relevant.
                                 <all>
