
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 4119 Reported in House (RH)]

                                                 Union Calendar No. 439
113th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                H. R. 4119

                          [Report No. 113-592]

 To direct the Secretary of the Interior to conduct a special resource 
study of the West Hunter Street Baptist Church in Atlanta, Georgia, and 
                          for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                           February 28, 2014

 Mr. Johnson of Georgia (for himself, Mr. Austin Scott of Georgia, Mr. 
   David Scott of Georgia, Mr. Barrow of Georgia, and Mr. Bishop of 
   Georgia) introduced the following bill; which was referred to the 
                     Committee on Natural Resources

                           September 15, 2014

  Additional sponsors: Ms. Norton, Ms. Sewell of Alabama, Ms. Jackson 
  Lee, Mr. Rangel, Mr. Cummings, Ms. Brown of Florida, Mr. Honda, Ms. 
  Hahn, Mr. Enyart, Mr. Ellison, Mr. Danny K. Davis of Illinois, Mr. 
 Conyers, Ms. Edwards, Ms. Clarke of New York, Ms. Lee of California, 
Mr. Grijalva, Mr. Cohen, Mr. Lowenthal, Mr. Thompson of California, Ms. 
Kelly of Illinois, Mr. Holt, Ms. Moore, Ms. Waters, Mr. McGovern, Mrs. 
 Beatty, Mr. Rush, Ms. Wilson of Florida, Mr. Cartwright, Mr. Hastings 
 of Florida, Mr. Smith of Washington, Mr. Thompson of Mississippi, Mr. 
   Clay, Mr. Levin, Ms. Eddie Bernice Johnson of Texas, Mr. Scott of 
  Virginia, Mr. Sablan, Mr. Fattah, Mr. Butterfield, Mr. Nadler, Mr. 
 Meeks, Mr. Costa, Mr. Nunnelee, Mr. Moran, Mr. Israel, Mr. Carson of 
  Indiana, Mr. Grayson, Mrs. Christensen, Mr. Schiff, Mrs. Carolyn B. 
 Maloney of New York, Mrs. Napolitano, Ms. Clark of Massachusetts, Ms. 
Wasserman Schultz, Ms. Chu, Mr. Pocan, Mr. Cardenas, Mr. McDermott, Mr. 
  Cleaver, Mr. Richmond, Ms. DeLauro, Mr. Pierluisi, Mr. DeFazio, Ms. 
  Bordallo, Mr. Veasey, Mr. Pallone, Ms. Shea-Porter, Mr. Garcia, Mr. 
   Takano, Mr. Price of North Carolina, Mr. Doggett, Mr. Al Green of 
          Texas, Ms. Tsongas, Mr. Engel, and Mr. Westmoreland

                           September 15, 2014

  Reported with an amendment, committed to the Committee of the Whole 
       House on the State of the Union, and ordered to be printed
 [Strike out all after the enacting clause and insert the part printed 
                               in italic]
    [For text of introduced bill, see copy of bill as introduced on 
                           February 28, 2014]

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
 To direct the Secretary of the Interior to conduct a special resource 
study of the West Hunter Street Baptist Church in Atlanta, Georgia, and 
                          for other purposes.


 


    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``West Hunter Street Baptist Church 
Study Act''.

SEC. 2. SPECIAL RESOURCE STUDY.

    (a) Study.--The Secretary of the Interior shall conduct a special 
resource study of the historic West Hunter Street Baptist Church, 
located at 775 Martin Luther King Jr. Drive, SW., Atlanta, Georgia and 
the block on which the church is located.
    (b) Contents.--In conducting the study under subsection (a), the 
Secretary shall--
            (1) evaluate the national significance of the site;
            (2) determine the suitability and feasibility of 
        designating the area as a unit of the National Park System;
            (3) consider other alternatives for preservation, 
        protection, and interpretation of the site by Federal, State, 
        or local governmental entities, or private and nonprofit 
        organizations;
            (4) consult with interested Federal, State, or local 
        governmental entities, private and nonprofit organizations or 
        any other interested individuals;
            (5) identify cost estimates for any Federal acquisition, 
        development, interpretation, operation, and maintenance 
        associated with the alternatives;
            (6) consider the effect of the designation of the study 
        area as a unit of the National Park System on--
                    (A) existing commercial and recreational 
                activities, including but not limited to hunting, 
                fishing, and recreational shooting, and on the 
                authorization, construction, operation, maintenance, or 
                improvement of energy production and transmission 
                infrastructure; and
                    (B) the authority of State and local governments to 
                manage those activities.
            (7) identify any authorities, including condemnation, that 
        will compel or permit the Secretary to influence or participate 
        in local land use decisions (such as zoning) or place 
        restrictions on non-Federal lands if the study area is 
        designated a unit of the National Park System.
    (c) Notification of Private Property Owners.--Upon commencement of 
the study, owners of private property adjacent to the area will be 
notified of the study's commencement and scope.
    (d) Applicable Law.--The study required under subsection (a) shall 
be conducted in accordance with the National Park System General 
Authorities Act (16 U.S.C. 1a-5(c)).
    (e) Report.--Not later than 3 years after the date on which funds 
are first made available for the study under subsection (a), the 
Secretary shall submit to the Committee on Natural Resources of the 
House of Representatives and the Committee on Energy and Natural 
Resources of the Senate a report containing the results of the study 
and any conclusions and recommendations of the Secretary.
                                                 Union Calendar No. 439

113th CONGRESS

  2d Session

                               H. R. 4119

                          [Report No. 113-592]

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL

 To direct the Secretary of the Interior to conduct a special resource 
study of the West Hunter Street Baptist Church in Atlanta, Georgia, and 
                          for other purposes.

_______________________________________________________________________

                           September 15, 2014

  Reported with an amendment, committed to the Committee of the Whole 
       House on the State of the Union, and ordered to be printed
