
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 1612 Introduced in House (IH)]

113th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                H. R. 1612

To direct the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to convey a parcel of land 
 in Tuskegee, Alabama, to Tuskegee University, and for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                             April 17, 2013

   Mr. Rogers of Alabama (for himself, Mr. Aderholt, Mr. Bachus, Mr. 
 Bonner, Mr. Brooks of Alabama, Mrs. Roby, and Ms. Sewell of Alabama) 
 introduced the following bill; which was referred to the Committee on 
                           Veterans' Affairs

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
To direct the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to convey a parcel of land 
 in Tuskegee, Alabama, to Tuskegee University, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. FINDINGS.

    Congress makes the following findings:
            (1) In 1922, Tuskegee University voted to donate three 
        hundred acres of land to the United States to build a veterans' 
        hospital, a portion of which is described in section 2(a).
            (2) The property is administered by the Department of 
        Veterans Affairs and has been used as space for the Tuskegee 
        Veteran's Hospital.
            (3) Tuskegee University (hereinafter referred to as the 
        ``University'') is a State-related land grant institution of 
        higher learning that intends to use the property described in 
        section 2(a) to further the education and general welfare of 
        its students.
            (4) As provided in section 2, the conveyance of the 
        property to the University would promote the University's 
        educational mission and related purposes and result in savings 
        to the Federal Government.

SEC. 2. LAND CONVEYANCE, DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS AFFAIRS PROPERTY, 
              TUSKEGEE, ALABAMA.

    (a) Conveyance Authorized.--The Secretary of Veterans Affairs 
shall, without consideration, convey all right, title, and interest of 
the United States in and to a parcel of real property, including 
improvements thereon, consisting of approximately 64.5 acres located at 
2400 Hospital Road, Tuskegee, Alabama, including building numbers 19-
29, 50-51, 59-60, 62-63, 80, 94, 96, and 124, to Tuskegee University, 
for the purpose of permitting Tuskegee University to use the property 
to further the education and general welfare of its students. In 
carrying out the conveyance under this subsection, the Secretary may 
survey all or a portion of the property to be conveyed if the Secretary 
determines such a survey would be necessary or desirable.
    (b) Hazardous Substances.--Notwithstanding section 120(h) of the 
Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act 
of 1980 (42 U.S.C. 9620(h)) or the Solid Waste Disposal Act (42 U.S.C. 
6901 et seq.), in the conveyance of the property under subsection (a), 
the Secretary shall be only required to meet the disclosure 
requirements for hazardous substances, pollutants, and contaminants, 
but otherwise shall not be required to remediate or abate the release 
of any hazardous substance, pollutant, or contaminant, including 
petroleum and petroleum derivatives.
    (c) Cooperative Authority.--
            (1) Leases, contracts, and cooperative agreements 
        authorized.--In conjunction with, or in addition to, the 
        conveyance under subsection (a), the Secretary may enter into 
        leases, contracts, and cooperative agreements with the 
        University related to the conveyance authorized under 
        subsection (a).
            (2) Sole source.--Notwithstanding division C of subtitle I 
        of title 41, United States Code, or any other provision of law, 
        the Secretary may lease real property from the University on a 
        noncompetitive basis.
            (3) Non-exclusive authority.--The authority provided by 
        this subsection is in addition to any other authority of the 
        Secretary.
    (d) Additional Terms and Conditions.--The Secretary may require 
such reasonable terms and conditions in connection with the conveyance 
under subsection (a) as the Secretary considers appropriate to protect 
the interests of the United States, except that the conveyance may not 
require further administrative or environmental analyses or 
examination.
                                 <all>
