
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[S. 930 Introduced in Senate (IS)]

113th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                 S. 930

  To amend title 38, United States Code, to require the Secretary of 
 Veterans Affairs, in cases of overpayments of educational assistance 
under Post-9/11 Educational Assistance, to deduct amounts for repayment 
  from the last months of educational assistance entitlement, and for 
                            other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                              May 13, 2013

  Mr. Bennet introduced the following bill; which was read twice and 
             referred to the Committee on Veterans' Affairs

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
  To amend title 38, United States Code, to require the Secretary of 
 Veterans Affairs, in cases of overpayments of educational assistance 
under Post-9/11 Educational Assistance, to deduct amounts for repayment 
  from the last months of educational assistance entitlement, and for 
                            other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. DELAYED REPAYMENT OF OVERPAYMENTS MADE UNDER POST-9/11 
              EDUCATIONAL ASSISTANCE.

    (a) In General.--Section 5314 of title 38, United States Code, is 
amended--
            (1) by redesignating subsections (c) and (d) as subsections 
        (d) and (e), respectively;
            (2) in subsection (a), by striking ``to subsections (b) and 
        (d)'' and inserting ``to subsections (b), (c), and (e)''; and
            (3) by inserting after subsection (b) the following new 
        subsection (c):
    ``(c)(1) Subject to paragraph (2), in the case of a deduction under 
subsection (a) with respect to an overpayment made by the Secretary to 
a person under chapter 33 of this title, the Secretary shall, to the 
degree practicable, make such deduction from the last payment or 
payments (as necessary) to which such person is entitled under such 
chapter.
    ``(2) Paragraph (1) shall no longer apply to, and amounts shall be 
deducted as otherwise provided in this section with respect to, a 
person described in such paragraph who, after the overpayment described 
in such paragraph--
            ``(A) completes the program of education with respect to 
        which the overpayment was made; or
            ``(B) fails, during the next two academic semesters 
        beginning after such overpayment, to attend classes in a manner 
        consistent with normal pursuit of a program of education.
    ``(3) The Secretary may charge an individual described in paragraph 
(1) such amount of interest on the amount of indebtedness as is 
necessary so that the delayed repayment is actuarially equivalent to 
immediate repayment.
    ``(4) This subsection shall expire on the date that is nine years 
after the date of the enactment of this subsection.''.
    (b) Applicability.--Subsection (c) of section 5314 of such title, 
as added by subsection (a), shall apply with respect to overpayments 
made on or after the date of the enactment of this Act.
                                 <all>
