
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 3635 Referred in Senate (RFS)]

113th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                H. R. 3635


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                             July 29, 2014

Received; read twice and referred to the Committee on Homeland Security 
                        and Governmental Affairs

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 AN ACT


 
 To ensure the functionality and security of new Federal websites that 
  collect personally identifiable information, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Safe and Secure Federal Websites Act 
of 2014''.

SEC. 2. ENSURING FUNCTIONALITY AND SECURITY OF NEW FEDERAL WEBSITES 
              THAT COLLECT PERSONALLY IDENTIFIABLE INFORMATION.

    (a) Certification Requirement.--
            (1) In general.--Except as otherwise provided under this 
        subsection, an agency may not deploy or make available to the 
        public a new Federal PII website until the date on which the 
        chief information officer of the agency submits a certification 
        to Congress that the website is fully functional and secure.
            (2) Transition.--In the case of a new Federal PII website 
        that is operational on the date of the enactment of this Act, 
        paragraph (1) shall not apply until the end of the 90-day 
        period beginning on such date of enactment. If the 
        certification required under paragraph (1) for such website has 
        not been submitted to Congress before the end of such period, 
        the head of the responsible agency shall render the website 
        inaccessible to the public until such certification is 
        submitted to Congress.
            (3) Exception for beta website with explicit permission.--
        Paragraph (1) shall not apply to a website (or portion thereof) 
        that is in a development or testing phase, if the following 
        conditions are met:
                    (A) A member of the public may access PII-related 
                portions of the website only after executing an 
                agreement that acknowledges the risks involved.
                    (B) No agency compelled, enjoined, or otherwise 
                provided incentives for such a member to access the 
                website for such purposes.
            (4) Construction.--Nothing in this section shall be 
        construed as applying to a website that is operated entirely by 
        an entity (such as a State or locality) that is independent of 
        the Federal Government, regardless of the receipt of funding in 
        support of such website from the Federal Government.
    (b) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Agency.--The term ``agency'' has the meaning given that 
        term under section 551 of title 5, United States Code.
            (2) Fully functional.--The term ``fully functional'' means, 
        with respect to a new Federal PII website, that the website can 
        fully support the activities for which it is designed or 
        intended with regard to the eliciting, collection, storage, or 
        maintenance of personally identifiable information, including 
        handling a volume of queries relating to such information 
        commensurate with the purpose for which the website is 
        designed.
            (3) New federal personally identifiable information website 
        (new federal pii website).--The terms ``new Federal personally 
        identifiable information website'' and ``new Federal PII 
        website'' mean a website that--
                    (A) is operated by (or under a contract with) an 
                agency;
                    (B) elicits, collects, stores, or maintains 
                personally identifiable information of individuals and 
                is accessible to the public; and
                    (C) is first made accessible to the public and 
                collects or stores personally identifiable information 
                of individuals, on or after October 1, 2012.
            (4) Operational.--The term ``operational'' means, with 
        respect to a website, that such website elicits, collects, 
        stores, or maintains personally identifiable information of 
        members of the public and is accessible to the public.
            (5) Personally identifiable information (pii).--The terms 
        ``personally identifiable information'' and ``PII'' mean any 
        information about an individual elicited, collected, stored, or 
        maintained by an agency, including--
                    (A) any information that can be used to distinguish 
                or trace the identity of an individual, such as a name, 
                a social security number, a date and place of birth, a 
                mother's maiden name, or biometric records; and
                    (B) any other information that is linked or 
                linkable to an individual, such as medical, 
                educational, financial, and employment information.
            (6) Responsible agency.--The term ``responsible agency'' 
        means, with respect to a new Federal PII website, the agency 
        that is responsible for the operation (whether directly or 
        through contracts with other entities) of the website.
            (7) Secure.--The term ``secure'' means, with respect to a 
        new Federal PII website, that the following requirements are 
        met:
                    (A) The website is in compliance with subchapter 
                III of chapter 35 of title 44, United States Code.
                    (B) The website ensures that personally 
                identifiable information elicited, collected, stored, 
                or maintained in connection with the website is 
                captured at the latest possible step in a user input 
                sequence.
                    (C) The responsible agency for the website has 
                taken reasonable efforts to minimize domain name 
                confusion, including through additional domain 
                registrations.
                    (D) The responsible agency requires all personnel 
                who have access to personally identifiable information 
                in connection with the website to have completed a 
                Standard Form 85P and signed a non-disclosure agreement 
                with respect to personally identifiable information, 
                and the agency takes proper precautions to ensure only 
                trustworthy persons may access such information.
                    (E) The responsible agency maintains (either 
                directly or through contract) sufficient personnel to 
                respond in a timely manner to issues relating to the 
                proper functioning and security of the website, and to 
                monitor on an ongoing basis existing and emerging 
                security threats to the website.
            (8) State.--The term ``State'' means each State of the 
        United States, the District of Columbia, each territory or 
        possession of the United States, and each federally recognized 
        Indian tribe.

SEC. 3. PRIVACY BREACH REQUIREMENTS.

    (a) Information Security Amendment.--Subchapter III of chapter 35 
of title 44, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the 
following:
``Sec. 3550. Privacy breach requirements
    ``(a) Policies and Procedures.--The Director of the Office of 
Management and Budget shall establish and oversee policies and 
procedures for agencies to follow in the event of a breach of 
information security involving the disclosure of personally 
identifiable information, including requirements for--
            ``(1) not later than 72 hours after the agency discovers 
        such a breach, or discovers evidence that reasonably indicates 
        such a breach has occurred, notice to the individuals whose 
        personally identifiable information could be compromised as a 
        result of such breach;
            ``(2) timely reporting to a Federal cybersecurity center, 
        as designated by the Director of the Office of Management and 
        Budget; and
            ``(3) any additional actions that the Director finds 
        necessary and appropriate, including data breach analysis, 
        fraud resolution services, identity theft insurance, and credit 
        protection or monitoring services.
    ``(b) Required Agency Action.--The head of each agency shall ensure 
that actions taken in response to a breach of information security 
involving the disclosure of personally identifiable information under 
the authority or control of the agency comply with policies and 
procedures established by the Director of the Office of Management and 
Budget under subsection (a).
    ``(c) Report.--Not later than March 1 of each year, the Director of 
the Office of Management and Budget shall report to Congress on agency 
compliance with the policies and procedures established under 
subsection (a).
    ``(d) Federal Cybersecurity Center Defined.--The term `Federal 
cybersecurity center' means any of the following:
            ``(1) The Department of Defense Cyber Crime Center.
            ``(2) The Intelligence Community Incident Response Center.
            ``(3) The United States Cyber Command Joint Operations 
        Center.
            ``(4) The National Cyber Investigative Joint Task Force.
            ``(5) Central Security Service Threat Operations Center of 
        the National Security Agency.
            ``(6) The United States Computer Emergency Readiness Team.
            ``(7) Any successor to a center, team, or task force 
        described in paragraphs (1) through (6).
            ``(8) Any center that the Director of the Office of 
        Management and Budget determines is appropriate to carry out 
        the requirements of this section.''.
    (b) Technical and Conforming Amendment.--The table of sections for 
subchapter III of chapter 35 of title 44, United States Code, is 
amended by adding at the end the following:

``3550. Privacy breach requirements.''.

            Passed the House of Representatives July 28, 2014.

            Attest:

                                                 KAREN L. HAAS,

                                                                 Clerk.
