
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.J. Res. 88 Introduced in House (IH)]

113th CONGRESS
  1st Session
H. J. RES. 88

 Making continuing appropriations for operations of the United States 
 Military Academy, the United States Naval Academy, the United States 
   Air Force Academy, the Coast Guard Academy, and the United States 
             Merchant Marine Academy for fiscal year 2014.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                            October 4, 2013

Mr. Terry introduced the following joint resolution; which was referred 
                   to the Committee on Appropriations

_______________________________________________________________________

                            JOINT RESOLUTION


 
 Making continuing appropriations for operations of the United States 
 Military Academy, the United States Naval Academy, the United States 
   Air Force Academy, the Coast Guard Academy, and the United States 
             Merchant Marine Academy for fiscal year 2014.

    Resolved by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United 
States of America in Congress assembled, That the following sums are 
hereby appropriated, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise 
appropriated, for operations of the United States Military Academy, the 
United States Naval Academy, the United States Air Force Academy, the 
Coast Guard Academy, and the United States Merchant Marine Academy for 
fiscal year 2014, and for other purposes, namely:
    Sec. 101. (a) Such amounts as may be necessary, at a rate for 
operations as provided for in the Consolidated and Further Continuing 
Appropriations Act, 2013 (Public Law 113-6) and under the authority and 
conditions provided in the applicable divisions of such Act, for 
projects or activities for the continuing operations of the United 
States Military Academy, the United States Naval Academy, the United 
States Air Force Academy, the Coast Guard Academy, and the United 
States Merchant Marine Academy that are not otherwise specifically 
provided for in the Pay Our Military Act, that were conducted in fiscal 
year 2013, and for which appropriations, funds, or other authority were 
made available by the Consolidated and Further Continuing 
Appropriations Act, 2013, in the specified accounts:
            (1) The United States Military Academy, ``Department of 
        Defense--Operation and Maintenance, Army''.
            (2) The United States Naval Academy, ``Department of 
        Defense--Operation and Maintenance, Navy''.
            (3) The United States Air Force Academy, ``Department of 
        Defense--Operation and Maintenance, Air Force''.
            (4) The Coast Guard Academy, ``Department of Homeland 
        Security--Coast Guard--Operating Expenses''.
            (5) The United States Merchant Marine Academy, ``Department 
        of Transportation--Maritime Administration--Operations and 
        Training''.
    (b) The rate for operations provided by subsection (a) for each 
project or activity shall be calculated to reflect the full amount of 
any reduction required in fiscal year 2013 pursuant to--
            (1) any provision of division G of the Consolidated and 
        Further Continuing Appropriations Act, 2013 (Public Law 113-6), 
        including section 3004; and
            (2) the Presidential sequestration order dated March 1, 
        2013, except as attributable to budget authority made available 
        by the Disaster Relief Appropriations Act, 2013 (Public Law 
        113-2).
    Sec. 102.  Appropriations made by section 101 shall be available to 
the extent and in the manner that would be provided by the pertinent 
appropriations Act.
    Sec. 103.  Unless otherwise provided for in this joint resolution 
or in the applicable appropriations Act for fiscal year 2014, 
appropriations and funds made available and authority granted pursuant 
to this joint resolution shall be available until whichever of the 
following first occurs: (1) the enactment into law of an appropriation 
for any project or activity provided for in this joint resolution; (2) 
the enactment into law of the applicable appropriations Act for fiscal 
year 2014 without any provision for such project or activity; or (3) 
December 15, 2013.
    Sec. 104.  Expenditures made pursuant to this joint resolution 
shall be charged to the applicable appropriation, fund, or 
authorization whenever a bill in which such applicable appropriation, 
fund, or authorization is contained is enacted into law.
    Sec. 105.  This joint resolution shall be implemented so that only 
the most limited funding action of that permitted in the joint 
resolution shall be taken in order to provide for continuation of 
projects and activities.
     This joint resolution may be cited as the ``United States Service 
Academies Continuing Appropriations Resolution, 2014''.
                                 <all>
