
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 4723 Introduced in House (IH)]

113th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                H. R. 4723

  To amend title 10, United States Code, to authorize aliens who have 
been granted deferred action and work authorization under the Deferred 
  Action for Childhood Arrivals program of the Department of Homeland 
Security and who otherwise satisfy the requirements for admission to a 
   military service academy to be appointed to and attend a military 
service academy and, upon graduation, to be appointed as a commissioned 
                      officer in the Armed Forces.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                              May 22, 2014

 Mr. Castro of Texas (for himself and Ms. Ros-Lehtinen) introduced the 
 following bill; which was referred to the Committee on Armed Services

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
  To amend title 10, United States Code, to authorize aliens who have 
been granted deferred action and work authorization under the Deferred 
  Action for Childhood Arrivals program of the Department of Homeland 
Security and who otherwise satisfy the requirements for admission to a 
   military service academy to be appointed to and attend a military 
service academy and, upon graduation, to be appointed as a commissioned 
                      officer in the Armed Forces.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Opportunity for Military Academies 
and Readiness Act''.

SEC. 2. AUTHORITY TO APPOINT CERTAIN ALIENS WHO ARE UNLAWFULLY PRESENT 
              IN THE UNITED STATES AS CADETS AND MIDSHIPMEN AT MILITARY 
              SERVICE ACADEMIES.

    (a) United States Military Academy.--Section 4346 of title 10, 
United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new 
subsection:
    ``(e)(1) An alien who, at the time of application for admission to 
the Academy, possesses an employment authorization document issued by 
United States Citizenship and Immigration Services under the 
requirements of the Department of Homeland Security policy entitled 
`Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals' (DACA) dated June 15, 2012, 
and who otherwise satisfies the requirements for admission to the 
Academy, other than the United States citizenship requirement, may be--
            ``(A) appointed as a cadet and attend the Academy; and
            ``(B) upon graduation, be appointed as a commissioned 
        officer in the armed forces.
    ``(2) Nothing in paragraph (1) shall be construed to alter the 
process prescribed by sections 328, 329, and 329A of the Immigration 
and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1439, 1440, 1440-1) by which a person may 
naturalize through service in the armed forces.''.
    (b) Naval Academy.--Section 6958 of such title is amended by adding 
at the end the following new subsection:
    ``(e)(1) An alien who, at the time of application for admission to 
the Naval Academy, possesses an employment authorization document 
issued by United States Citizenship and Immigration Services under the 
requirements of the Department of Homeland Security policy entitled 
`Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals' (DACA) dated June 15, 2012, 
and who otherwise satisfies the requirements for admission to the 
Academy, other than the United States citizenship requirement, may be--
            ``(A) appointed as a midshipman and attend the Academy; and
            ``(B) upon graduation, be appointed as a commissioned 
        officer in the armed forces.
    ``(2) Nothing in paragraph (1) shall be construed to alter the 
process prescribed by sections 328, 329, and 329A of the Immigration 
and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1439, 1440, 1440-1) by which a person may 
naturalize through service in the armed forces.''.
    (c) Air Force Academy.--Section 9346 of such title is amended by 
adding at the end the following new subsection:
    ``(e)(1) An alien who, at the time of application for admission to 
the Academy, possesses an employment authorization document issued by 
United States Citizenship and Immigration Services under the 
requirements of the Department of Homeland Security policy entitled 
`Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals' (DACA) dated June 15, 2012, 
and who otherwise satisfies the requirements for admission to the 
Academy, other than the United States citizenship requirement, may be--
            ``(A) appointed as a cadet and attend the Academy; and
            ``(B) upon graduation, be appointed as a commissioned 
        officer in the armed forces.
    ``(2) Nothing in paragraph (1) shall be construed to alter the 
process prescribed by sections 328, 329, and 329A of the Immigration 
and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1439, 1440, 1440-1) by which a person may 
naturalize through service in the armed forces.''.
                                 <all>
