
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[S. Con. Res. 11 Engrossed in Senate (ES)]

113th CONGRESS
  1st Session
S. CON. RES. 11

_______________________________________________________________________

                         CONCURRENT RESOLUTION

    Resolved by the Senate (the House of Representatives concurring), 
That when the Senate recesses or adjourns on any day from Friday, March 
22, 2013 through Tuesday, March 26, 2013, on a motion offered pursuant 
to this concurrent resolution by its Majority Leader or his designee, 
it stand recessed or adjourned until 12:00 noon on Monday, April 8, 
2013, or such other time on that day as may be specified by its 
Majority Leader or his designee in the motion to recess or adjourn, or 
until the time of any reassembly pursuant to section 2 of this 
concurrent resolution, whichever occurs first; and that when the House 
adjourns on Monday, March 25, 2013, on a motion offered pursuant to 
this concurrent resolution by its Majority Leader or his designee, it 
stand adjourned until 2:00 p.m. on Tuesday, April 9, 2013, or until the 
time of any reassembly pursuant to section 2 of this concurrent 
resolution, whichever occurs first.
    Sec. 2.  The Majority Leader of the Senate and the Speaker of the 
House, or their respective designees, acting jointly after consultation 
with the Minority Leader of the Senate and the Minority Leader of the 
House, shall notify the Members of the Senate and House, respectively, 
to reassemble at such place and time as they may designate if, in their 
opinion, the public interest shall warrant it.

            Passed the Senate March 23 (legislative day, March 22), 
      2013.

            Attest:

                                                             Secretary.
113th CONGRESS

  1st Session

                            S. CON. RES. 11

_______________________________________________________________________

                         CONCURRENT RESOLUTION

Providing for a conditional adjournment or recess of the Senate and an 
              adjournment of the House of Representatives.
