
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 2314 Introduced in House (IH)]

113th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                H. R. 2314

 To direct the Secretary of Defense to establish a strategy to prevent 
the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction and related materials 
  in the Middle East and North Africa region, and for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                             June 11, 2013

 Mr. Fortenberry introduced the following bill; which was referred to 
                    the Committee on Foreign Affairs

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
 To direct the Secretary of Defense to establish a strategy to prevent 
the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction and related materials 
  in the Middle East and North Africa region, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Cooperative Threat Reduction 
Modernization Act''.

SEC. 2. STRATEGY TO MODERNIZE COOPERATIVE THREAT REDUCTION AND PREVENT 
              THE PROLIFERATION OF WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION AND 
              RELATED MATERIALS IN THE MIDDLE EAST AND NORTH AFRICA 
              REGION.

    (a) Strategy Required.--The Secretary of Defense, in consultation 
with the Secretary of State and the Secretary of Energy, shall 
establish a comprehensive strategy to modernize cooperative threat 
reduction and advance cooperative efforts with international partners 
to reduce the threat from the proliferation of weapons of mass 
destruction and related materials in the Middle East and North Africa 
region.
    (b) Elements.--The strategy required by subsection (a) shall--
            (1) build upon the current activities of the Departments of 
        Defense, State, and Energy's nonproliferation programs that aim 
        to mitigate the range of threats in the Middle East and North 
        Africa region posed by weapons of mass destruction;
            (2) review issues relating to the threat from the 
        proliferation of weapons of mass destruction and related 
        materials in the Middle East and North Africa region on a 
        regional basis as well as on a country-by-country basis;
            (3) review the activities and achievements in the Middle 
        East and North Africa region of the Department of Defense 
        Cooperative Threat Reduction Program and the nonproliferation 
        programs at the Department of State and Department of Energy 
        and other United States Government agencies and departments 
        designed to address nuclear, radiological, chemical, and 
        biological safety and security issues;
            (4) ensure the continued coordination of cooperative 
        nonproliferation efforts within the United States Government 
        and further mobilize and leverage additional resources from 
        partner nations, nongovernmental and multilateral 
        organizations, and international institutions;
            (5) include an assessment of what countries are 
        financially, materially, or technologically supporting 
        proliferation in this region and how the strategy will prevent, 
        stop or interdict the support;
            (6) include an estimate of associated costs required to 
        plan and execute the proposed cooperative threat reduction 
        activities in order to execute the comprehensive strategy to 
        prevent the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction and 
        related materials; and
            (7) include a discussion of the metrics to measure the 
        strategy's and activities' success in reducing the regional 
        threat of the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction.
    (c) Integration and Coordination.--The strategy required by 
subsection (a) shall include an assessment of gaps in current 
cooperative nonproliferation efforts, an articulation of agencies' 
threat reduction priorities in the Middle East and North Africa region, 
the establishment of appropriate metrics for determining success in the 
region, and steps to ensure that the strategy fits in broader United 
States efforts to reduce the threat from weapons of mass destruction.
    (d) Consultation.--In establishing the strategy required by 
subsection (a), the Secretary of Defense may consult with both 
governmental and nongovernmental experts from a diverse set of views.
    (e) Strategy and Implementation Plan.--Not later than March 31, 
2014, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the specified 
congressional committees the cooperative threat reduction modernization 
strategy required by subsection (a), as well as a plan for the 
implementation of the strategy required by subsection (a).
    (f) Form.--The strategy required by subsection (a) shall be 
submitted in unclassified form, but may include a classified annex.
    (g) Specified Congressional Committees.--In this section, the term 
``specific congressional committees'' means--
            (1) the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on 
        Foreign Affairs, and the Committee on Appropriations of the 
        House of Representatives; and
            (2) the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on 
        Foreign Relations, and the Committee on Appropriations of the 
        Senate.
                                 <all>
