
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H. Res. 380 Reported in House (RH)]

                                                  House Calendar No. 67
113th CONGRESS
  1st Session
H. RES. 380

                          [Report No. 113-244]

    Relating to consideration of the House amendment to the Senate 
    amendment to the bill (H.R. 2642) to provide for the reform and 
 continuation of agricultural and other programs of the Department of 
Agriculture through fiscal year 2018, and for other purposes, providing 
for consideration of the resolution (H. Res. 378) expressing the sense 
  of the House of Representatives regarding certain provisions of the 
      Senate amendment to H.R. 2642 relating to the Secretary of 
Agriculture's administration of tariff-rate quotas for raw and refined 
sugar, and providing for consideration of the resolution (H. Res. 379) 
expressing the sense of the House of Representatives regarding certain 
   provisions of the Senate amendment to H.R. 2642 relating to crop 
                               insurance.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                            October 11, 2013

     Ms. Foxx, from the Committee on Rules, reported the following 
resolution; which was referred to the House Calendar and ordered to be 
                                printed

_______________________________________________________________________

                               RESOLUTION


 
    Relating to consideration of the House amendment to the Senate 
    amendment to the bill (H.R. 2642) to provide for the reform and 
 continuation of agricultural and other programs of the Department of 
Agriculture through fiscal year 2018, and for other purposes, providing 
for consideration of the resolution (H. Res. 378) expressing the sense 
  of the House of Representatives regarding certain provisions of the 
      Senate amendment to H.R. 2642 relating to the Secretary of 
Agriculture's administration of tariff-rate quotas for raw and refined 
sugar, and providing for consideration of the resolution (H. Res. 379) 
expressing the sense of the House of Representatives regarding certain 
   provisions of the Senate amendment to H.R. 2642 relating to crop 
                               insurance.

    Resolved, That it shall be in order without intervention of any 
point of order for the chair of the Committee on Agriculture or his 
designee to move that the House insist on its amendment to the Senate 
amendment to H.R. 2642 and agree to a conference with the Senate 
thereon.
    Sec. 2.  Upon adoption of this resolution it shall be in order 
without intervention of any point of order to consider in the House the 
resolution (H. Res. 378) expressing the sense of the House of 
Representatives regarding certain provisions of the Senate amendment to 
H.R. 2642 relating to the Secretary of Agriculture's administration of 
tariff-rate quotas for raw and refined sugar. The resolution shall be 
considered as read. The previous question shall be considered as 
ordered on the resolution to its adoption without intervening motion or 
demand for division of the question except one hour of debate equally 
divided and controlled by Representative Pitts of Pennsylvania or his 
designee and an opponent.
    Sec. 3.  Upon adoption of this resolution it shall be in order 
without intervention of any point of order to consider in the House the 
resolution (H. Res. 379) expressing the sense of the House of 
Representatives regarding certain provisions of the Senate amendment to 
H.R. 2642 relating to crop insurance. The resolution shall be 
considered as read. The previous question shall be considered as 
ordered on the resolution to its adoption without intervening motion or 
demand for division of the question except one hour of debate equally 
divided and controlled by Representative Ryan of Wisconsin or his 
designee and an opponent.
                                                  House Calendar No. 67

113th CONGRESS

  1st Session

                              H. RES. 380

                          [Report No. 113-244]

_______________________________________________________________________

                               RESOLUTION

    Relating to consideration of the House amendment to the Senate 
    amendment to the bill (H.R. 2642) to provide for the reform and 
 continuation of agricultural and other programs of the Department of 
Agriculture through fiscal year 2018, and for other purposes, providing 
for consideration of the resolution (H. Res. 378) expressing the sense 
  of the House of Representatives regarding certain provisions of the 
      Senate amendment to H.R. 2642 relating to the Secretary of 
Agriculture's administration of tariff-rate quotas for raw and refined 
sugar, and providing for consideration of the resolution (H. Res. 379) 
expressing the sense of the House of Representatives regarding certain 
   provisions of the Senate amendment to H.R. 2642 relating to crop 
                               insurance.

_______________________________________________________________________

                            October 11, 2013

        Referred to the House Calendar and ordered to be printed
