
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 135 Introduced in House (IH)]

113th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                H. R. 135

To authorize improvements to flood damage reduction facilities adjacent 
to the American and Sacramento Rivers near Sacramento, California, and 
                          for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                            January 3, 2013

  Ms. Matsui introduced the following bill; which was referred to the 
             Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
To authorize improvements to flood damage reduction facilities adjacent 
to the American and Sacramento Rivers near Sacramento, California, and 
                          for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Natomas Basin Flood Protection 
Improvements Act of 2013''.

SEC. 2. PROJECT MODIFICATION, AMERICAN AND SACRAMENTO RIVERS, 
              CALIFORNIA.

    (a) In General.--The project for flood damage reduction, American 
and Sacramento Rivers, California, authorized by section 101(a)(1) of 
the Water Resources Development Act of 1996 (Public Law 104-303; 110 
Stat. 3662), and modified by section 366 of the Water Resources 
Development Act of 1999 (Public Law 106-53; 113 Stat. 319), section 129 
of the Energy and Water Development Appropriations Act, 2004 (Public 
Law 108-137; 117 Stat. 1839), and section 130 of the Energy and Water 
Development and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2008 (Division C 
of Public Law 110-161; 121 Stat. 1947), is further modified to 
authorize the Secretary of the Army to construct improvements to flood 
damage reduction facilities adjacent to the American and Sacramento 
Rivers in the vicinity of Sacramento, California, substantially in 
accordance with the report of the Chief of Engineers entitled 
``American River Watershed (Common Features) Project, Natomas Basin, 
Sacramento and Sutter Counties, California'', dated December 30, 2010, 
at an estimated total cost of $1,389,500,000, with an estimated Federal 
cost of $921,200,000 and an estimated non-Federal cost of $468,300,000.
    (b) Credit for Non-Federal Work.--
            (1) In general.--The non-Federal interest shall receive 
        credit for expenses and in-kind contributions incurred by the 
        non-Federal interest for planning, design, and construction of 
        the project and acquisition of lands, easements, rights-of-way, 
        relocations, and dredged material disposal areas for the 
        project.
            (2) Application of credit.--Such credit shall be applied 
        toward the non-Federal share of--
                    (A) the project; or
                    (B) any other project for which the non-Federal 
                interest has entered into a cost-sharing agreement with 
                the Secretary.
            (3) Limitation on statutory construction.--Nothing in this 
        subsection may be construed to limit the ability of the non-
        Federal interest to pursue credit or reimbursement for work 
        performed by the non-Federal interest in connection with the 
        project under any other authority, rule, or procedure, 
        including section 104 of the Water Resources Development Act of 
        1986 (33 U.S.C. 2214).
                                 <all>
