
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 608 Introduced in House (IH)]

113th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                H. R. 608

 For the relief of Maria Eva Duran, Jessica Duran Cortes, Daniel Ivan 
              Duran Cortes, and Jose Antonio Duran Cortes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                            February 8, 2013

Ms. Roybal-Allard introduced the following bill; which was referred to 
                     the Committee on the Judiciary

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
 For the relief of Maria Eva Duran, Jessica Duran Cortes, Daniel Ivan 
              Duran Cortes, and Jose Antonio Duran Cortes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. PERMANENT RESIDENT STATUS FOR MARIA EVA DURAN, JESSICA DURAN 
              CORTES, DANIEL IVAN DURAN CORTES, AND JOSE ANTONIO DURAN 
              CORTES.

    (a) In General.--Notwithstanding subsections (a) and (b) of section 
201 of the Immigration and Nationality Act, Maria Eva Duran, Jessica 
Duran Cortes, Daniel Ivan Duran Cortes, and Jose Antonio Duran Cortes 
shall each be eligible for issuance of an immigrant visa or for 
adjustment of status to that of an alien lawfully admitted for 
permanent residence upon filing an application for issuance of an 
immigrant visa under section 204 of such Act or for adjustment of 
status to lawful permanent resident.
    (b) Adjustment of Status.--If Maria Eva Duran, Jessica Duran 
Cortes, Daniel Ivan Duran Cortes, or Jose Antonio Duran Cortes enters 
the United States before the filing deadline specified in subsection 
(c), he or she shall be considered to have entered and remained 
lawfully and shall, if otherwise eligible, be eligible for adjustment 
of status under section 245 of the Immigration and Nationality Act as 
of the date of the enactment of this Act.
    (c) Deadline for Application and Payment of Fees.--Subsections (a) 
and (b) shall apply only if the application for issuance of an 
immigrant visa or the application for adjustment of status is filed 
with appropriate fees within 2 years after the date of the enactment of 
this Act.
    (d) Reduction of Immigrant Visa Number.--Upon the granting of an 
immigrant visa or permanent residence to Maria Eva Duran, Jessica Duran 
Cortes, Daniel Ivan Duran Cortes, and Jose Antonio Duran Cortes, the 
Secretary of State shall instruct the proper officer to reduce by 4, 
during the current or next following fiscal year, the total number of 
immigrant visas that are made available to natives of the country of 
the aliens' birth under section 203(a) of the Immigration and 
Nationality Act or, if applicable, the total number of immigrant visas 
that are made available to natives of the country of the aliens' birth 
under section 202(e) of such Act.
    (e) Denial of Preferential Immigration Treatment for Certain 
Relatives.--The natural parents, brothers, and sisters of Maria Eva 
Duran, Jessica Duran Cortes, Daniel Ivan Duran Cortes, and Jose Antonio 
Duran Cortes shall not, by virtue of such relationship, be accorded any 
right, privilege, or status under the Immigration and Nationality Act.
                                 <all>
