
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 1891 Introduced in House (IH)]

113th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                H. R. 1891

   To establish a position of Science Laureate of the United States.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                              May 8, 2013

Ms. Lofgren (for herself, Mr. Smith of Texas, Ms. Eddie Bernice Johnson 
   of Texas, Ms. Bonamici, Mr. Peters of California, Mr. Swalwell of 
California, Mr. Veasey, Mr. Lipinski, Mr. Cramer, Mr. Takano, Ms. Esty, 
Mr. Kilmer, Mr. Kennedy, Ms. Brownley of California, Mr. Hultgren, Mr. 
Bera of California, and Ms. Wilson of Florida) introduced the following 
   bill; which was referred to the Committee on Science, Space, and 
                               Technology

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
   To establish a position of Science Laureate of the United States.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Science Laureates of the United 
States Act of 2013''.

SEC. 2. FINDINGS.

    Congress finds the following:
            (1) Scientific research and advancement has driven success 
        in the United States and global success for centuries.
            (2) Scientific research has saved, improved, and extended 
        lives, increased the standard of living, expanded economic 
        opportunity, and advanced human understanding.
            (3) Such research holds the promise of continuing this 
        progress, protecting the environment, creating jobs, growing 
        the economy through innovative ideas and discoveries, and 
        generally advancing all mankind.
            (4) People in the United States can benefit when scientific 
        research is conducted and communicated in a transparent manner 
        to better inform citizens about the nature and status of such 
        research.
            (5) Scientific education is a critical element of preparing 
        our Nation and our citizens for a technology-intensive future 
        and ensuring that the United States remains the world leader in 
        innovation and high-tech success.
            (6) A spokesperson who can embody, demonstrate, and 
        articulate the importance and excitement of scientific research 
        and education will help improve the current and future state of 
        science to the benefit of all people in the United States.

SEC. 3. ESTABLISHMENT OF SCIENCE LAUREATES OF THE UNITED STATES.

    (a) Position Established.--Congress recognizes that science 
contributes to the economic prosperity and general welfare of the 
United States, and that increasing the public's awareness about the 
sciences will increase such benefits. Congress also recognizes that 
scientists who are both accomplished in their fields and who foster the 
public's interest in science do a special service to the United States. 
To honor their service and to further increase the public's awareness 
about the sciences, there is established the position of Science 
Laureate of the United States.
    (b) Appointment.--
            (1) In general.--The President shall appoint a Science 
        Laureate on the basis of--
                    (A) merit, particularly the ability of an 
                individual to--
                            (i) foster and enhance public awareness and 
                        interest in science; and
                            (ii) provide ongoing significant scientific 
                        contributions; and
                    (B) recommendations received from the National 
                Academy of Sciences, based on the factors described in 
                subparagraph (A).
            (2) Variety of scientific disciplines.--The President shall 
        strive to choose for the position of Science Laureate of the 
        United States individuals, in different years, from different 
        scientific disciplines, including biology, physics, 
        geosciences, astronomy, mathematics, chemistry, and other 
        science disciplines.
            (3) Number of appointments.--The President may, in 
        exceptional circumstances, appoint more than 1, but not more 
        than 3 Science Laureates to serve simultaneously in the 
        position of Science Laureate of the United States.
    (c) Duties.--Each Science Laureate shall engage the public, from 
time to time, to increase the public's awareness about science. A 
Science Laureate is encouraged to continue the Science Laureate's 
scientific work. The National Academy of Sciences shall facilitate the 
duties of a Science Laureate.
    (d) Limitation.--The Science Laureate position shall not have the 
effect of duplicating or superseding the role of the President's 
Science Advisor.
    (e) Term.--Each Science Laureate shall serve a 1-year or 2-year 
term, as determined by the President. A Science Laureate may be 
reappointed for additional terms.
    (f) Compensation; Reimbursement.--
            (1) Compensation.--A Science Laureate shall serve without 
        pay and shall not be considered to be a Federal employee based 
        on such individual's appointment as a Science Laureate.
            (2) Reimbursement for travel.--The National Academy of 
        Sciences may in its discretion provide a Science Laureate with 
        reimbursement for travel expenses incurred while performing 
        duties as a Science Laureate, including per diem in lieu of 
        subsistence, in accordance with applicable provisions in the 
        same manner as persons employed intermittently in the 
        Government service are allowed expenses under section 5703 of 
        title 5, United States Code.
                                 <all>
