
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[S. 2357 Introduced in Senate (IS)]

113th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                S. 2357

  To provide for improvements in the consistency of data collection, 
  reporting, and assessment in connection with the suicide prevention 
                 efforts of the Department of Defense.


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                              May 20, 2014

 Ms. Murkowski introduced the following bill; which was read twice and 
              referred to the Committee on Armed Services

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
  To provide for improvements in the consistency of data collection, 
  reporting, and assessment in connection with the suicide prevention 
                 efforts of the Department of Defense.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Department of Defense Suicide 
Tracking Act of 2014''.

SEC. 2. IMPROVEMENT OF CONSISTENCY IN COLLECTION, REPORTING, AND 
              ASSESSMENT OF DATA IN DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE SUICIDE 
              PREVENTION EFFORTS.

    (a) Policy for Standard Suicide Data Collection, Reporting, and 
Assessment.--The Secretary of Defense shall prescribe a policy for the 
development of a standard method for collecting, reporting, and 
assessing suicide data and suicide-attempt data involving members of 
the Armed Forces, including reserve components thereof, and their 
dependents in order to improve the consistency and comprehensiveness 
of--
            (1) the suicide prevention policy developed pursuant to 
        section 582 of the National Defense Authorization Act for 
        Fiscal Year 2013 (Public Law 112-239; 10 U.S.C. 1071 note); and
            (2) the suicide prevention and resilience program for the 
        National Guard and Reserves established pursuant to section 
        10219 of title 10, United States Code.
    (b) Submittal of Policy and Congressional Briefing.--Not later than 
180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary 
shall submit the policy developed under subsection (a) to the 
Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of 
Representatives. At the request of the committees, the Secretary also 
shall brief the committees on the policy and the implementation status 
of a standardized suicide data collection, reporting, and assessment 
method pursuant to the policy.
    (c) Consultation and Implementation.--In the case of the suicide 
prevention and resilience program for the National Guard and Reserves 
referred to in subsection (a)(2)--
            (1) the Secretary shall develop the policy required by 
        subsection (a) in consultation with the Chief of the National 
        Guard Bureau; and
            (2) the adjutants general of the States, the Commonwealth 
        of Puerto Rico, the District of Columbia, Guam, and the Virgin 
        Islands shall implement the policy within 180 days after the 
        date of the submittal of the policy under subsection (b).
    (d) Dependent Defined.--In this section, the term ``dependent'', 
with respect to a member of the Armed Forces, means a person described 
in section 1072(2) of title 10, United States Code, except that, in the 
case of a parent or parent-in-law of the member, the income 
requirements of subparagraph (E) of such section do not apply.
                                 <all>
