
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 3049 Introduced in House (IH)]

113th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                H. R. 3049

To treat members of the Armed Forces who were killed or wounded in the 
  November 5, 2009, attack at Fort Hood, Texas, or the June 1, 2009, 
  attack at Little Rock, Arkansas, as if the members were awarded the 
  Purple Heart, to clarify the eligibility of such members for combat-
         related special compensation, and for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                             August 2, 2013

   Mr. Rooney (for himself, Mr. Carter, Mr. Griffin of Arkansas, Mr. 
  Williams, Mr. Wolf, and Mr. McCaul) introduced the following bill; 
         which was referred to the Committee on Armed Services

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
To treat members of the Armed Forces who were killed or wounded in the 
  November 5, 2009, attack at Fort Hood, Texas, or the June 1, 2009, 
  attack at Little Rock, Arkansas, as if the members were awarded the 
  Purple Heart, to clarify the eligibility of such members for combat-
         related special compensation, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Justice for Fort Hood and Little 
Rock Heroes Act''.

SEC. 2. TREATMENT OF MEMBERS OF THE ARMED FORCES WHO WERE KILLED OR 
              WOUNDED IN THE NOVEMBER 5, 2009, ATTACK AT FORT HOOD, 
              TEXAS, OR THE JUNE 1, 2009, ATTACK AT LITTLE ROCK, 
              ARKANSAS.

    (a) Treatment.--For purposes of all applicable Federal laws, 
regulations, and policies, an individual who, while a member of the 
Armed Forces, was killed or wounded in a covered attack shall be 
treated as if the individual has been awarded a Purple Heart as of the 
date of the enactment of this Act.
    (b) Combat-Related Special Compensation.--An individual who, while 
a member of the Armed Forces, was wounded in a covered attack shall be 
treated as an ``eligible combat-related disabled uniformed services 
retiree'' under subsection (c) of section 1413a of title 10, United 
States Code, for purposes of determining the eligibility of the 
individual for combat-related special compensation paid under such 
section.
    (c) Exception.--Subsections (a) and (b) shall not apply to an 
individual whose death or wound as described in such subsection is the 
result of the willful misconduct of the individual.
    (d) Sense of Congress.--Congress encourages each State and local 
government to treat an individual described in subsection (a) as 
eligible for any benefits provided by the State or local government to 
individuals by reason of the individual being killed or wounded while 
serving in the line of duty as a member of the Armed Forces.
    (e) Covered Attack Defined.--In this section, the term ``covered 
attack'' means the following:
            (1) The attack that occurred at Fort Hood, Texas, on 
        November 5, 2009.
            (2) The attack that occurred at a recruiting station in 
        Little Rock, Arkansas, on June 1, 2009.
                                 <all>
