
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H. Res. 198 Reported in House (RH)]

                                                  House Calendar No. 22
113th CONGRESS
  1st Session
H. RES. 198

                          [Report No. 113-51]

 Providing for consideration of the bill (H.R. 1406) to amend the Fair 
Labor Standards Act of 1938 to provide compensatory time for employees 
                         in the private sector.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                              May 6, 2013

     Ms. Foxx, from the Committee on Rules, reported the following 
resolution; which was referred to the House Calendar and ordered to be 
                                printed

_______________________________________________________________________

                               RESOLUTION


 
 Providing for consideration of the bill (H.R. 1406) to amend the Fair 
Labor Standards Act of 1938 to provide compensatory time for employees 
                         in the private sector.

    Resolved, That upon the adoption of this resolution it shall be in 
order to consider in the House the bill (H.R. 1406) to amend the Fair 
Labor Standards Act of 1938 to provide compensatory time for employees 
in the private sector. All points of order against consideration of the 
bill are waived. The amendment in the nature of a substitute 
recommended by the Committee on Education and the Workforce now printed 
in the bill shall be considered as adopted. The bill, as amended, shall 
be considered as read. All points of order against provisions in the 
bill, as amended, are waived. The previous question shall be considered 
as ordered on the bill, as amended, and on any further amendment 
thereto, to final passage without intervening motion except: (1) one 
hour of debate equally divided and controlled by the chair and ranking 
minority member of the Committee on Education and the Workforce; (2) 
the further amendment printed in the report of the Committee on Rules 
accompanying this resolution, if offered by Representative Gibson of 
New York or his designee, which shall be in order without intervention 
of any point of order, shall be considered as read, shall be separately 
debatable for 10 minutes equally divided and controlled by the 
proponent and an opponent, and shall not be subject to a demand for 
division of the question; and (3) one motion to recommit with or 
without instructions.
                                                  House Calendar No. 22

113th CONGRESS

  1st Session

                              H. RES. 198

                          [Report No. 113-51]

_______________________________________________________________________

                               RESOLUTION

 Providing for consideration of the bill (H.R. 1406) to amend the Fair 
Labor Standards Act of 1938 to provide compensatory time for employees 
                         in the private sector.

_______________________________________________________________________

                              May 6, 2013

        Referred to the House Calendar and ordered to be printed
