
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 3591 Introduced in House (IH)]

113th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                H. R. 3591

 To amend the Public Health Service Act to authorize grants to provide 
            treatment for diabetes in minority communities.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                           November 21, 2013

Ms. Waters (for herself, Ms. Bordallo, Mr. Grijalva, Ms. Roybal-Allard, 
 Ms. Lee of California, Mrs. Christensen, Ms. Hahn, Mr. Hinojosa, Ms. 
    Norton, Ms. Brown of Florida, Ms. Jackson Lee, Mrs. Beatty, Mr. 
 Conyers, Ms. Clarke, Mr. Hastings of Florida, Mr. Rangel, Mr. Payne, 
Mr. Ellison, Ms. Wilson of Florida, Mr. Bishop of Georgia, Ms. Michelle 
 Lujan Grisham of New Mexico, Mr. Cardenas, Mr. Al Green of Texas, Ms. 
Sewell of Alabama, Mr. Faleomavaega, Ms. Loretta Sanchez of California, 
 Mr. Cummings, Mr. Danny K. Davis of Illinois, Mr. Engel, Ms. Chu, Ms. 
 McCollum, Mr. Cohen, Mr. Brady of Pennsylvania, Mr. Meeks, Mr. Honda, 
Mr. Vela, Mr. Lewis, Mr. Rush, Mr. Serrano, Ms. Moore, Mr. Takano, and 
 Mr. Enyart) introduced the following bill; which was referred to the 
                    Committee on Energy and Commerce

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
 To amend the Public Health Service Act to authorize grants to provide 
            treatment for diabetes in minority communities.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Minority Diabetes Initiative Act''.

SEC. 2. GRANTS REGARDING TREATMENT OF DIABETES IN MINORITY COMMUNITIES.

    Part D of title III of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 
254b et seq.) is amended by inserting after section 330L the following:

``SEC. 330M. GRANTS REGARDING TREATMENT OF DIABETES IN MINORITY 
              COMMUNITIES.

    ``(a) In General.--The Secretary may make grants to public and 
nonprofit private health care providers for the purpose of providing 
treatment for diabetes in minority communities.
    ``(b) Recipients of Grants.--The public and nonprofit private 
health care providers to whom grants may be made under subsection (a) 
include physicians, podiatrists, community-based organizations, health 
care organizations, community health centers, and State, local, and 
tribal health departments.
    ``(c) Scope of Treatment Activities.--The Secretary shall ensure 
that grants under subsection (a) cover a variety of diabetes-related 
health care services, including routine care for diabetic patients, 
public education on diabetes prevention and control, eye care, foot 
care, and treatment for kidney disease and other complications of 
diabetes.
    ``(d) Appropriate Cultural Context.--A condition for the receipt of 
a grant under subsection (a) is that the applicant involved agrees 
that, in the program carried out with the grant, services will be 
provided in the languages most appropriate for, and with consideration 
for the cultural backgrounds of, the individuals for whom the services 
are provided.
    ``(e) Outreach Services.--A condition for the receipt of a grant 
under subsection (a) is that the applicant involved agrees to provide 
outreach activities to inform the public of the services of the 
program, and to provide offsite information on diabetes.
    ``(f) Application for Grant.--A grant may be made under subsection 
(a) only if an application for the grant is submitted to the Secretary 
and the application is in such form, is made in such manner, and 
contains such agreements, assurances, and information as the Secretary 
determines to be necessary to carry out this section.
    ``(g) Authorization of Appropriations.--For the purpose of carrying 
out this section, there are authorized to be appropriated such sums as 
may be necessary for each of the fiscal years 2014 through 2019.''.
                                 <all>
