
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H. Res. 694 Engrossed in House (EH)]

H. Res. 694

                In the House of Representatives, U. S.,

                                                         July 30, 2014.
    Resolved, That upon adoption of this resolution it shall be in order without 
intervention of any point of order to consider in the House the resolution (H. 
Res. 676) providing for authority to initiate litigation for actions by the 
President or other executive branch officials inconsistent with their duties 
under the Constitution of the United States. The amendment recommended by the 
Committee on Rules now printed in the resolution shall be considered as adopted. 
The resolution, as amended, shall be considered as read. The previous question 
shall be considered as ordered on the resolution, as amended, to adoption 
without intervening motion or demand for division of the question except one 
hour of debate equally divided and controlled by the chair and ranking minority 
member of the Committee on Rules.
    Sec. 2.  Upon the adoption of this resolution it shall be in order to 
consider in the House the bill (H.R. 935) to amend the Federal Insecticide, 
Fungicide, and Rodenticide Act and the Federal Water Pollution Control Act to 
clarify Congressional intent regarding the regulation of the use of pesticides 
in or near navigable waters, and for other purposes. All points of order against 
consideration of the bill are waived. The bill shall be considered as read. All 
points of order against provisions in the bill are waived. The previous question 
shall be considered as ordered on the bill and on any amendment thereto to final 
passage without intervening motion except: (1) one hour of debate equally 
divided and controlled by the chair and ranking minority member of the Committee 
on Transportation and Infrastructure; and (2) one motion to recommit.
    Sec. 3.  On any legislative day during the period from August 1, 2014, 
through September 5, 2014--
     (a) the Journal of the proceedings of the previous day shall be considered 
as approved; and
    (b) the Chair may at any time declare the House adjourned to meet at a date 
and time, within the limits of clause 4, section 5, article I of the 
Constitution, to be announced by the Chair in declaring the adjournment.
    Sec. 4.  The Speaker may appoint Members to perform the duties of the Chair 
for the duration of the period addressed by section 3 of this resolution as 
though under clause 8(a) of rule I.
    Sec. 5.  Each day during the period addressed by section 3 of this 
resolution shall not constitute a calendar day for purposes of section 7 of the 
War Powers Resolution (50 U.S.C. 1546).
    Sec. 6.  Each day during the period addressed by section 3 of this 
resolution shall not constitute a legislative day for purposes of clause 7 of 
rule XIII.
            Attest:

                                                                          Clerk.
