
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 1006 Introduced in House (IH)]

113th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                H. R. 1006

  To amend title 39, United States Code, to lower the maximum rate of 
compensation for United States Postal Service employees, and for other 
                               purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                             March 6, 2013

 Mr. Griffith of Virginia (for himself and Mr. Michaud) introduced the 
 following bill; which was referred to the Committee on Oversight and 
                           Government Reform

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
  To amend title 39, United States Code, to lower the maximum rate of 
compensation for United States Postal Service employees, and for other 
                               purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Postal Executive Accountability 
Act''.

SEC. 2. LIMITS ON EXECUTIVE PAY.

    (a) Limitation on Compensation.--Section 1003 of title 39, United 
States Code, is amended--
            (1) in subsection (a), by striking the last sentence; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following:
    ``(e)(1) Subject to paragraph (2), an officer or employee of the 
Postal Service may not be paid at a rate of basic pay that exceeds the 
rate of basic pay for level II of the Executive Schedule under section 
5312 of title 5.
    ``(2) Not more than 6 officers or employees of the Postal Service 
that are in very senior executive positions, as determined by the Board 
of Governors, may be paid at a rate of basic pay that does not exceed 
the rate of basic pay for level I of the Executive Schedule under 
section 5312 of title 5.
    ``(3) For any fiscal year, an officer or employee of the Postal 
Service who is in a very senior executive position, as designated under 
paragraph (2), may not receive fringe benefits (within the meaning 
given that term under section 1005(f)) that are greater than the fringe 
benefits received by supervisory and other managerial personnel who are 
not subject to collective-bargaining agreements under chapter 12.''.
    (b) Limitation on Bonuses.--Section 3686 of title 39, United States 
Code, is amended as follows:
            (1) In subsection (a), by adding at the end the following: 
        ``Notwithstanding the authority granted under this section and 
        except as provided under section 1003(e), no officer or 
        employee of the Postal Service shall be paid compensation at a 
        rate in excess of the rate for level II of the Executive 
        Schedule under section 5312 of title 5.''.
            (2) Subsections (b) and (c) are repealed.
            (3) In subsection (d)--
                    (A) in paragraph (1)--
                            (i) by striking ``which would not have been 
                        allowable but for the provisions of subsection 
                        (b) or (c);''; and
                            (ii) by adding ``and'' at the end;
                    (B) in paragraph (2), by striking ``; and'' and 
                inserting a period; and
                    (C) by striking paragraph (3).
                                 <all>
