
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 5512 Introduced in House (IH)]

113th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                H. R. 5512

 To require that certain Federal lands be held in trust by the United 
    States for the benefit of the Cow Creek Band of Umpqua Tribe of 
                    Indians, and for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                           September 17, 2014

 Mr. DeFazio introduced the following bill; which was referred to the 
                     Committee on Natural Resources

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
 To require that certain Federal lands be held in trust by the United 
    States for the benefit of the Cow Creek Band of Umpqua Tribe of 
                    Indians, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Cow Creek Umpqua Land Conveyance 
Act''.

SEC. 2. DEFINITIONS.

    In this Act:
            (1) Council creek land.--The term ``Council Creek land'' 
        means the approximately 17,519 acres of land, as generally 
        depicted on the map entitled ``Canyon Mountain Land 
        Conveyance'' and dated June 27, 2013.
            (2) Tribe.--The term ``Tribe'' means the Cow Creek Band of 
        Umpqua Tribe of Indians.
            (3) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary 
        of the Interior.

SEC. 3. CONVEYANCE.

    (a) In General.--Subject to valid existing rights, including 
rights-of-way, all right, title, and interest of the United States in 
and to the Council Creek land, including any improvements located on 
the land, appurtenances to the land, and minerals on or in the land, 
including oil and gas, shall be--
            (1) held in trust by the United States for the benefit of 
        the Tribe; and
            (2) part of the reservation of the Tribe.
    (b) Survey.--Not later than one year after the date of enactment of 
this Act, the Secretary shall complete a survey of the boundary lines 
to establish the boundaries of the land taken into trust under 
subsection (a).

SEC. 4. MAP AND LEGAL DESCRIPTION.

    (a) In General.--As soon as practicable after the date of enactment 
of this Act, the Secretary shall file a map and legal description of 
the Council Creek land with--
            (1) the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the 
        Senate; and
            (2) the Committee on Natural Resources of the House of 
        Representatives.
    (b) Force and Effect.--The map and legal description filed under 
subsection (a) shall have the same force and effect as if included in 
this Act, except that the Secretary may correct any clerical or 
typographical errors in the map or legal description.
    (c) Public Availability.--The map and legal description filed under 
subsection (a) shall be on file and available for public inspection in 
the Office of the Secretary.

SEC. 5. ADMINISTRATION.

    (a) In General.--Unless expressly provided in this Act, nothing in 
this Act affects any right or claim of the Tribe existing on the date 
of enactment of this Act to any land or interest in land.
    (b) Prohibitions.--
            (1) Exports of unprocessed logs.--Federal law (including 
        regulations) relating to the export of unprocessed logs 
        harvested from Federal land shall apply to any unprocessed logs 
        that are harvested from the Council Creek land.
            (2) Non-permissible use of land.--Any real property taken 
        into trust under section 3 shall not be eligible, or used, for 
        any gaming activity carried out under Public Law 100-497 (25 
        U.S.C. 2701 et seq.).
    (c) Forest Management.--Any forest management activity that is 
carried out on the Council Creek land shall be managed in accordance 
with all applicable Federal laws, including the National Indian Forest 
Resources Management Act (25 U.S.C. 3101 et seq.).

SEC. 6. LAND RECLASSIFICATION.

    (a) Identification of Oregon and California Railroad Grant Land.--
Not later than 180 days after the date of enactment of this Act, the 
Secretary of Agriculture and the Secretary shall identify any Oregon 
and California Railroad grant land that is held in trust by the United 
States for the benefit of the Tribe under section 3.
    (b) Identification of Public Domain Land.--Not later than 18 months 
after the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall identify 
public domain land in the State of Oregon that--
            (1) is approximately equal in acreage and condition as the 
        Oregon and California Railroad grant land identified under 
        subsection (a); and
            (2) is located in the vicinity of the Oregon and California 
        Railroad grant land.
    (c) Maps.--Not later than 2 years after the date of enactment of 
this Act, the Secretary shall submit to Congress and publish in the 
Federal Register one or more maps depicting the land identified in 
subsections (a) and (b).
    (d) Reclassification.--
            (1) In general.--After providing an opportunity for public 
        comment, the Secretary shall reclassify the land identified in 
        subsection (b) as Oregon and California Railroad grant land.
            (2) Applicability.--The Act of August 28, 1937 (43 U.S.C. 
        1181a et seq.) shall apply to land reclassified as Oregon and 
        California Railroad grant land under paragraph (1).
                                 <all>
