
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[S. Res. 30 Introduced in Senate (IS)]

113th CONGRESS
  1st Session
S. RES. 30

         Establishing the Committee to Reduce Government Waste.


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                           February 12, 2013

    Mr. Udall of Colorado (for himself, Mr. Roberts, and Mr. Enzi) 
submitted the following resolution; which was referred to the Committee 
                      on Rules and Administration

_______________________________________________________________________

                               RESOLUTION


 
         Establishing the Committee to Reduce Government Waste.

    Resolved,

SECTION 1. ESTABLISHMENT.

    There shall be a Senate committee known as the Committee to Reduce 
Government Waste (referred to in this resolution as the ``committee'').

SEC. 2. MEMBERSHIP.

    (a) Composition.--The committee shall be composed of 12 members as 
follows:
            (1) 4 members from the Committee on Finance, 2 selected by 
        the Majority Leader and 2 selected by the Minority Leader.
            (2) 4 members from the Committee on Appropriations, 2 
        selected by the Majority Leader and 2 selected by the Minority 
        Leader.
            (3) 4 members from the Committee on the Budget, 2 selected 
        by the Majority Leader and 2 selected by the Minority Leader.
    (b) Tenure of Office.--
            (1) Period of appointment.--Members shall be appointed for 
        a period not to exceed 6 years.
            (2) Exceptions.--No person shall continue to serve as a 
        member of the committee after that person has ceased to be a 
        member of the Committee from which the member was chosen.
    (c) Vacancies.--Any vacancy in the committee shall not affect its 
powers, but shall be filled in the same manner as the original 
appointment.
    (d) Chairman and Vice Chairman.--The committee shall select a 
Chairman and Vice Chairman from among its members.
    (e) Quorum.--A majority of the members of the committee shall 
constitute a quorum, but a lesser number of members may hold hearings. 
The powers conferred upon them under section 4 may be exercised by a 
majority vote.

SEC. 3. DUTIES.

    (a) In General.--The committee shall have the following duties:
            (1) Study.--The committee shall--
                    (A) research, review, and study Federal programs 
                that are underperforming or nonessential; and
                    (B) determine which Federal programs should be 
                modified or eliminated.
            (2) Recommendations.--The committee shall develop 
        recommendations to the Senate for actions designed to modify or 
        eliminate underperforming or nonessential Federal programs.
            (3) Reports and legislation.--The committee shall submit to 
        the Senate--
                    (A) at least once a year, reports including--
                            (i) a detailed statement of the findings 
                        and conclusions of the committee; and
                            (ii) a list of underperforming or 
                        nonessential Federal programs; and
                    (B) such legislation and administrative actions as 
                the committee considers appropriate.
    (b) Consideration of Legislation.--Any legislation submitted to the 
Senate by the committee shall be considered under the provisions of 
section 310 of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974 (2 U.S.C. 641).

SEC. 4. POWERS.

    (a) Hearings.--The committee or, at its direction, any subcommittee 
or member of the committee, may, for the purpose of carrying out the 
provisions of section 3--
            (1) sit and act, at any time, during the sessions, 
        recesses, and adjourned periods of Congress;
            (2) require as the committee considers necessary, by 
        subpoena or otherwise, the attendance of witnesses and the 
        production of books, papers, and documents;
            (3) administer oaths and take testimony; and
            (4) procure necessary printing and binding.
    (b) Witness Allowances and Fees.--The provisions of section 1821 of 
title 28, United States Code, shall apply to witnesses requested to 
appear at any hearing of the committee. The per diem and mileage 
allowances for witnesses shall be paid from funds available to pay the 
expenses of the committee.
    (c) Expenditures.--The committee, or any subcommittee thereof, is 
authorized to make such expenditures as it deems advisable.

SEC. 5. APPOINTMENT AND COMPENSATION OF STAFF.

    Except as otherwise provided by law, the committee shall have the 
power to appoint and fix the compensation of the Chief of Staff of the 
committee and such experts and clerical, stenographic, and other 
assistants as the committee deems advisable.

SEC. 6. PAYMENT OF EXPENSES.

    The expenses of the committee shall be paid from the contingent 
fund of the Senate.
                                 <all>
