
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[S. 995 Introduced in Senate (IS)]

113th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                 S. 995

    To authorize the National Desert Storm Memorial Association to 
  establish the National Desert Storm and Desert Shield Memorial as a 
commemorative work in the District of Columbia, and for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                              May 21, 2013

  Mr. Boozman (for himself and Mr. Donnelly) introduced the following 
bill; which was read twice and referred to the Committee on Energy and 
                           Natural Resources

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
    To authorize the National Desert Storm Memorial Association to 
  establish the National Desert Storm and Desert Shield Memorial as a 
commemorative work in the District of Columbia, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``National Desert Storm and Desert 
Shield War Memorial Act''.

SEC. 2. DEFINITIONS.

    In this Act:
            (1) Association.--The term ``Association'' means the 
        National Desert Storm Memorial Association, a corporation that 
        is--
                    (A) organized under the laws of the State of 
                Arkansas; and
                    (B)(i) described in section 501(c)(3) of the 
                Internal Revenue Code of 1986; and
                    (ii) exempt from taxation under 501(a) of that 
                Code.
            (2) Memorial.--The term ``memorial'' means the National 
        Desert Storm and Desert Shield Memorial authorized to be 
        established under section 3.

SEC. 3. NATIONAL DESERT STORM AND DESERT SHIELD MEMORIAL.

    (a) Authorization To Establish Commemorative Work.--The Association 
may establish the National Desert Storm and Desert Shield Memorial as a 
commemorative work, on Federal land in the District of Columbia to 
commemorate and honor the members of the Armed Forces that served on 
active duty in support of Operation Desert Storm or Operation Desert 
Shield.
    (b) Compliance With Standards for Commemorative Works Act.--The 
establishment of the memorial under this section shall be in accordance 
with chapter 89 of title 40, United States Code (commonly known as the 
``Commemorative Works Act'').
    (c) Use of Federal Funds Prohibited.--
            (1) In general.--Federal funds may not be used to pay any 
        expense of the establishment of the memorial under this 
        section.
            (2) Responsibility of association.--The Association shall 
        be solely responsible for acceptance of contributions for, and 
        payment of the expenses of, the establishment of the memorial.
    (d) Deposit of Excess Funds.--If, on payment of all expenses for 
the establishment of the memorial (including the maintenance and 
preservation amount required by section 8906(b)(1) of title 40, United 
States Code), or on expiration of the authority for the memorial under 
section 8903(e) of title 40, United States Code, there remains a 
balance of funds received for the establishment of the memorial, the 
Association shall transmit the amount of the balance to the Secretary 
of the Interior for deposit in the account provided for in section 
8906(b)(3) of title 40, United States Code.
                                 <all>
