
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 304 Introduced in House (IH)]

113th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                H. R. 304

To amend title 49, United States Code, to change the membership of the 
Metropolitan Washington Airports Authority board of directors, and for 
                            other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                            January 15, 2013

   Mr. Wolf introduced the following bill; which was referred to the 
Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, and in addition to the 
   Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, for a period to be 
subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration 
  of such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the committee 
                               concerned

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
To amend title 49, United States Code, to change the membership of the 
Metropolitan Washington Airports Authority board of directors, and for 
                            other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. MEMBERSHIP OF METROPOLITAN WASHINGTON AIRPORTS AUTHORITY 
              BOARD OF DIRECTORS.

    Section 49106(c) of title 49, United States Code, is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (1)--
                    (A) in the matter preceding subparagraph (A) by 
                striking ``17 members'' and inserting ``9 members'';
                    (B) in subparagraph (A) by striking ``7 members'' 
                and inserting ``6 members'';
                    (C) in subparagraph (B) by striking ``4 members'' 
                and inserting ``1 member'';
                    (D) in subparagraph (C) by striking ``3 members'' 
                and inserting ``1 member''; and
                    (E) in subparagraph (D) by striking ``3 members'' 
                and inserting ``1 member'';
            (2) in paragraph (3) by striking ``, except that'' and all 
        that follows through ``4 years'';
            (3) by striking paragraph (6) and inserting the following:
            ``(6)(A) In carrying out the duties of the board, a member 
        appointed by the President shall ensure that adequate 
        consideration is given to the national interest.
            ``(B) A member appointed by the President may be removed by 
        the President for cause. A member appointed by the Mayor of the 
        District of Columbia, the Governor of Maryland, or the Governor 
        of Virginia may be removed or suspended from office only for 
        cause and in accordance with the laws of the jurisdiction from 
        which the member is appointed.''; and
            (4) in paragraph (7) by striking ``Ten votes'' and 
        inserting ``Five votes''.

SEC. 2. CONFORMING AMENDMENTS TO DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA LAWS GOVERNING 
              METROPOLITAN WASHINGTON AIRPORTS AUTHORITY MEMBERSHIP.

    (a) Number of Members.--Section 5(a) of the District of Columbia 
Regional Airports Authority Act of 1985 (sec. 9-904(a), D.C. Official 
Code) is amended--
            (1) by striking ``13 members'' and inserting ``9 members'';
            (2) by striking ``5 appointed by the Governor of the 
        Commonwealth of Virginia'' and inserting ``6 appointed by the 
        Governor of the Commonwealth of Virginia'';
            (3) by striking ``3 appointed by the Mayor'' and inserting 
        ``1 appointed by the Mayor'';
            (4) by striking ``2 appointed by the Governor of the State 
        of Maryland'' and inserting ``1 appointed by the Governor of 
        the State of Maryland''; and
            (5) by striking ``3 appointed by the President'' and 
        inserting ``1 appointed by the President''.
    (b) Votes Required for Approval of Bond Issues and Budget.--Section 
5(d) of such Act (sec. 9-904(d), D.C. Official Code) is amended by 
striking ``Eight affirmative votes'' and inserting ``Five affirmative 
votes''.
    (c) Removal.--Section 5(e) of such Act (sec. 9-904(e), D.C. 
Official Code) is amended to read as follows:
    ``(e)(1) In carrying out the duties of the board, a member 
appointed by the President shall ensure that adequate consideration is 
given to the national interest.
    ``(2) A member appointed by the President may be removed by the 
President for cause. A member appointed by the Mayor of the District of 
Columbia, the Governor of Maryland, or the Governor of Virginia may be 
removed or suspended from office only for cause and in accordance with 
the laws of the jurisdiction from which the member is appointed.''.
    (d) Prohibiting Continuation of Service After Expiration of Term.--
Section 5(g) of such Act (sec. 9-904(g), D.C. Official Code) is amended 
by striking the second sentence and inserting the following: ``A member 
shall not serve after the expiration of the member's term(s).''.

SEC. 3. TRANSITIONAL PROVISIONS.

    (a) Treatment of Current Members.--The term of an individual 
serving on the Metropolitan Washington Airports Authority board of 
directors the day before the date of enactment of this Act shall expire 
90 days after the date of such enactment. An individual may not be 
reappointed to such board after the date of such enactment if the term 
of that individual expired before the date of such enactment.
    (b) Virginia Members.--Notwithstanding section 49106(c)(3) of title 
49, United States Code, the Governor of Virginia shall appoint the 
first 6 individuals to the Metropolitan Washington Airports Authority 
board of directors after the date of enactment of this Act for the 
following terms:
            (1) Two members for a term of 1 year.
            (2) Two members for a term of 3 years.
            (3) Two members for a term of 5 years.
                                 <all>
