
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 4867 Received in Senate (RDS)]

113th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                H. R. 4867


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                           November 17, 2014

                                Received

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 AN ACT


 
 To provide for certain land to be taken into trust for the benefit of 
        Morongo Band of Mission Indians, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Economic Development Through Tribal 
Land Exchange Act''.

SEC. 2. DEFINITIONS.

    For the purposes of this Act, the following definitions apply:
            (1) Banning.--The term ``Banning'' means the City of 
        Banning, which is located in Riverside County, California 
        adjacent to the Morongo Indian Reservation.
            (2) Fields.--The term ``Fields'' means Lloyd L. Fields, the 
        owner of record of Parcel A.
            (3) Map.--The term ``map'' means the map entitled `Morongo 
        Indian Reservation, County of Riverside, State of California 
        Land Exchange Map', and dated May 22, 2014, which is on file in 
        the Bureau of Land Management State Office in Sacramento, 
        California.
            (4) Parcel a.--The term ``Parcel A'' means the 
        approximately 41.15 acres designated on the map as ``Fields 
        lands''.
            (5) Parcel b.--The term ``Parcel B'' means the 
        approximately 41.15 acres designated on the map as ``Morongo 
        lands''.
            (6) Parcel c.--The term ``Parcel C'' means the 
        approximately 1.21 acres designated on the map as ``Banning 
        land''.
            (7) Parcel d.--The term ``Parcel D'' means the 
        approximately 1.76 acres designated on the map as ``Easement to 
        Banning''.
            (8) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary 
        of the Interior.
            (9) Tribe.--The term ``Tribe'' means the Morongo Band of 
        Mission Indians, a federally recognized Indian tribe.

SEC. 3. TRANSFER OF LANDS; TRUST LANDS, EASEMENT.

    (a) Transfer of Parcel A and Parcel B and Easement Over Parcel D.--
Subject to any valid existing rights of any third parties and to legal 
review and approval of the form and content of any and all instruments 
of conveyance and policies of title insurance, upon receipt by the 
Secretary of confirmation that Fields has duly executed and deposited 
with a mutually acceptable and jointly instructed escrow holder in 
California a deed conveying clear and unencumbered title to Parcel A to 
the United States in trust for the exclusive use and benefit of the 
Tribe, and upon receipt by Fields of confirmation that the Secretary 
has duly executed and deposited into escrow with the same mutually 
acceptable and jointly instructed escrow holder a patent conveying 
clear and unencumbered title in fee simple to Parcel B to Fields and 
has duly executed and deposited into escrow with the same mutually 
acceptable and jointly instructed escrow holder an easement to the City 
for a public right-of-way over Parcel D, the Secretary shall instruct 
the escrow holder to simultaneously cause--
            (1) the patent to Parcel B to be recorded and issued to 
        Fields;
            (2) the easement over Parcel D to be recorded and issued to 
        the City; and
            (3) the deed to Parcel A to be delivered to the Secretary, 
        who shall immediately cause said deed to be recorded and held 
        in trust for the Tribe.
    (b) Transfer of Parcel C.--After the simultaneous transfer of 
parcels A, B, and D under subsection (a), upon receipt by the Secretary 
of confirmation that the City has vacated its interest in Parcel C 
pursuant to all applicable State and local laws, the Secretary shall 
immediately cause Parcel C to be held in trust for the Tribe subject 
to--
            (1) any valid existing rights of any third parties; and
            (2) legal review and approval of the form and content of 
        any and all instruments of conveyance.

            Passed the House of Representatives November 13, 2014.

            Attest:

                                                 KAREN L. HAAS,

                                                                 Clerk.
