
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H. Res. 710 Reported in House (RH)]

                                                 House Calendar No. 135
113th CONGRESS
  2d Session
H. RES. 710

                          [Report No. 113-571]

  Providing for further consideration of the bill (H.R. 5230) making 
 supplemental appropriations for the fiscal year ending September 30, 
 2014, and for other purposes; providing for consideration of the bill 
(H.R. 5272) to prohibit certain actions with respect to deferred action 
  for aliens not lawfully present in the United States, and for other 
  purposes; and providing for consideration of motions to suspend the 
                                 rules.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                             August 1, 2014

   Mr. Sessions, from the Committee on Rules, reported the following 
resolution; which was referred to the House Calendar and ordered to be 
                                printed

_______________________________________________________________________

                               RESOLUTION


 
  Providing for further consideration of the bill (H.R. 5230) making 
 supplemental appropriations for the fiscal year ending September 30, 
 2014, and for other purposes; providing for consideration of the bill 
(H.R. 5272) to prohibit certain actions with respect to deferred action 
  for aliens not lawfully present in the United States, and for other 
  purposes; and providing for consideration of motions to suspend the 
                                 rules.

    Resolved, That during further consideration of the bill (H.R. 5230) 
making supplemental appropriations for the fiscal year ending September 
30, 2014, and for other purposes, pursuant to House Resolution 696:
     (a) the amendments printed in part A of the report of the 
Committee on Rules accompanying this resolution shall be considered as 
adopted;
    (b) all points of order against provisions in the bill, as amended, 
are waived; and
    (c) the previous question shall be considered as ordered on the 
bill, as amended, and on any further amendment thereto to final passage 
without intervening motion except (1) one additional hour of debate 
equally divided and controlled by the chair and ranking minority member 
of the Committee on Appropriations and (2) one motion to recommit with 
or without instructions.
    Sec. 2.  After passage of H.R. 5230, and on the legislative day of 
August 1, 2014, the House shall consider in the House the bill (H.R. 
5272) to prohibit certain actions with respect to deferred action for 
aliens not lawfully present in the United States, and for other 
purposes. All points of order against consideration of the bill are 
waived. The amendment printed in part B of the report of the Committee 
on Rules accompanying this resolution shall be considered as adopted. 
The bill, as amended, shall be considered as read. All points of order 
against provisions in the bill, as amended, are waived. The previous 
question shall be considered as ordered on the bill, as amended, and on 
any further amendment thereto to final passage without intervening 
motion except: (1) one hour of debate equally divided and controlled by 
the chair and ranking minority member of the Committee on the 
Judiciary; and (2) one motion to recommit with or without instructions.
    Sec. 3.  Section 2 of House Resolution 700 is amended to read as 
follows: ``Sec. 2. It shall be in order at any time on the legislative 
day of August 1, 2014, for the Speaker to entertain motions that the 
House suspend the rules, as though under clause 1 of rule XV, relating 
to a measure addressing missile defense of Israel.''.
                                                 House Calendar No. 135

113th CONGRESS

  2d Session

                              H. RES. 710

                          [Report No. 113-571]

_______________________________________________________________________

                               RESOLUTION

  Providing for further consideration of the bill (H.R. 5230) making 
 supplemental appropriations for the fiscal year ending September 30, 
 2014, and for other purposes; providing for consideration of the bill 
(H.R. 5272) to prohibit certain actions with respect to deferred action 
  for aliens not lawfully present in the United States, and for other 
  purposes; and providing for consideration of motions to suspend the 
                                 rules.

_______________________________________________________________________

                             August 1, 2014

        Referred to the House Calendar and ordered to be printed
