
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[S. 156 Reported in Senate (RS)]

                                                       Calendar No. 105
113th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                 S. 156

                          [Report No. 113-51]

To allow for the harvest of gull eggs by the Huna Tlingit people within 
           Glacier Bay National Park in the State of Alaska.


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                            January 28, 2013

  Ms. Murkowski (for herself and Mr. Begich) introduced the following 
bill; which was read twice and referred to the Committee on Energy and 
                           Natural Resources

                             June 27, 2013

                Reported by Mr. Wyden, with an amendment
  [Omit the part struck through and insert the part printed in italic]

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
To allow for the harvest of gull eggs by the Huna Tlingit people within 
           Glacier Bay National Park in the State of Alaska.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Huna Tlingit Traditional Gull Egg 
Use Act''.

<DELETED>SEC. 2. AUTHORIZATION FOR COLLECTION OF GULL EGGS.</DELETED>

<DELETED>    (a) In General.--Notwithstanding any other provision of 
law, the Secretary of the Interior may allow the collection of the eggs 
of glaucous-winged gulls (Larus glaucescens) not more frequently than 
twice each calendar year at up to 5 locations within Glacier Bay 
National Park in the State of Alaska by members of the Hoonah Indian 
Association.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    (b) Conditions.--The Secretary of the Interior shall 
establish harvest schedules and locations and any other terms and 
conditions the Secretary determines to be necessary, based on an annual 
harvest plan to be prepared jointly by the Secretary and the Hoonah 
Indian Association.</DELETED>

SEC. 2. LIMITED AUTHORIZATION FOR COLLECTION OF GULL EGGS.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary of the Interior (referred to in this 
Act as the ``Secretary'') may allow the collection by members of the 
Hoonah Indian Association of the eggs of glaucous-winged gulls (Laurus 
glaucescens) within Glacier Bay National Park (referred to in this Act 
as the ``Park'') not more frequently than twice each calendar year at 
up to 5 locations within the Park, subject to any terms and conditions 
that the Secretary determines to be necessary.
    (b) Applicable Law.--For the purposes of sections 203 and 816 of 
the Alaska National Interest Lands Conservation Act (16 U.S.C. 410hh-2, 
3126), the collection of eggs of glaucous-winged gulls within the Park 
in accordance with subsection (a) shall be considered to be a use 
specifically permitted by that Act.
    (c) Harvest Plan.--The Secretary shall establish schedules, 
locations, and any additional terms and conditions that the Secretary 
determines to be necessary for the harvesting of eggs of glaucous-
winged gulls in the Park, based on an annual harvest plan to be 
prepared by the Secretary and the Hoonah Indian Association.
                                                       Calendar No. 105

113th CONGRESS

  1st Session

                                 S. 156

                          [Report No. 113-51]

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL

To allow for the harvest of gull eggs by the Huna Tlingit people within 
           Glacier Bay National Park in the State of Alaska.

_______________________________________________________________________

                             June 27, 2013

                       Reported with an amendment
