
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 4057 Introduced in House (IH)]

113th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                H. R. 4057

   To authorize funding for construction of U.S. Customs and Border 
    Protection customs plazas at land ports of entry, and for other 
                               purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                           February 11, 2014

    Mr. Peters of Michigan introduced the following bill; which was 
referred to the Committee on Homeland Security, and in addition to the 
Committee on Ways and Means, for a period to be subsequently determined 
 by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of such provisions as 
        fall within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
   To authorize funding for construction of U.S. Customs and Border 
    Protection customs plazas at land ports of entry, and for other 
                               purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Customs Plaza Construction Act of 
2014''.

SEC. 2. AUTHORIZATION.

    (a) In General.--To promote the facilitation of a functional and 
secure border, the Secretary of Homeland Security is authorized to 
construct facilities and buildings at land ports of entry. The 
Secretary shall collaborate with the appropriate crossing authority at 
such ports concerning such construction.
    (b) Location.--Facilities and buildings constructed at land ports 
of entry pursuant to subsection (a) shall be located within the same 
local jurisdiction as an existing land port of entry.
    (c) Prioritization.--Priority in the construction of facilities and 
buildings at land ports of entry pursuant to subsection (a) shall be 
given to land ports of entry that have the highest trade volume as 
measured by the value of shipments, including exports and imports, that 
pass through such ports.
    (d) Funding.--Amounts appropriated pursuant to the authorization of 
appropriations under subsection (e) to construct facilities and 
buildings at land ports of entry pursuant to subsection (a)--
            (1) may be obligated and expended only for such 
        construction, including for pavement, inspection booths, 
        offices, wiring, and communications infrastructure; and
            (2) may not be obligated or expended on utility 
        construction or relocation of any such port.
    (e) Authorization of Appropriations.--To carry out this Act there 
is authorized to be appropriated to the Secretary of Homeland Security 
such sums as may be necessary for each of fiscal years 2015 through 
2021.
                                 <all>
