
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 4823 Introduced in House (IH)]

113th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                H. R. 4823

   To amend the Workforce Investment Act of 1998 to require one-stop 
  delivery systems under such Act to offer services through Internet 
websites and to direct the Secretary of Labor to develop standards and 
                   best practices for such websites.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                             June 10, 2014

Mr. Swalwell of California (for himself and Mr. Hudson) introduced the 
 following bill; which was referred to the Committee on Education and 
                             the Workforce

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
   To amend the Workforce Investment Act of 1998 to require one-stop 
  delivery systems under such Act to offer services through Internet 
websites and to direct the Secretary of Labor to develop standards and 
                   best practices for such websites.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Widening Internet Readiness for 
Employment Development Act'' or the ``WIRED Act''.

SEC. 2. ONLINE PROVISION OF ONE-STOP SERVICES.

    (a) Online Provision of One-Stop Services.--Section 134(c)(2) of 
the Workforce Investment Act of 1998 (29 U.S.C. 2864(c)(2)) is 
amended--
            (1) in subparagraph (A), by striking ``; and'';
            (2) in subparagraph (B), by striking the period at the end 
        and inserting ``; and''; and
            (3) by adding at the end the following:
                    ``(C) to the extent that each of the programs, 
                services, and activities described in paragraph (1) can 
                be made accessible through an Internet website, shall 
                make such services accessible on such a website that--
                            ``(i) is unique to the particular one-stop 
                        delivery system; and
                            ``(ii) meets the standards and incorporates 
                        the best practices established by the Secretary 
                        pursuant section 121(g).''.
    (b) Standards and Best Practices for Online Provision of Services 
by One-Stop Delivery Systems.--Section 121 of the Workforce Investment 
Act of 1998 (29 U.S.C. 2841) is amended by adding at the end the 
following:
    ``(g) Standards and Best Practices for Online Provision of 
Services.--After soliciting public comments and consulting with and 
receiving input from relevant parties, including State workforce 
investment boards, the Secretary shall establish and maintain standards 
and best practices for Internet websites maintained by one-stop 
delivery systems as required by section 134(c)(2)(C), and for the 
provision of services through such websites. Such standards and best 
practices shall include--
            ``(1) a requirement for a user-friendly, up-to-date website 
        available to all dislocated workers;
            ``(2) a requirement that the website prominently display 
        the address and hours of operation of all physical one-stop 
        centers in the local area, and a description of services 
        provided in and events held at each such center;
            ``(3) best practices for providing, through the website, 
        services such as resume assistance, cover letter review, job 
        searching, interview preparations, and online employment-
        related practice tests, through videos, video-conferencing, or 
        other means;
            ``(4) best practices for assuring a secure network and the 
        protection of any personal information;
            ``(5) best practices for incorporating social media and 
        networking capabilities into the website; and
            ``(6) best practices for making such websites accessible by 
        mobile devices to the extent practicable.''.
    (c) Deadline.--The Secretary of Labor shall establish the initial 
standards and best practices required by section 121(g) of the 
Workforce Investment Act of 1998 (as added by subsection (b)) not later 
than 1 year after the date of enactment of this Act.
                                 <all>
