
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 4161 Introduced in House (IH)]

113th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                H. R. 4161

To encourage and further research on the engagement of underrepresented 
                       youth in the STEM fields.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                             March 6, 2014

  Ms. Wasserman Schultz (for herself and Ms. Granger) introduced the 
following bill; which was referred to the Committee on Science, Space, 
                             and Technology

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
To encourage and further research on the engagement of underrepresented 
                       youth in the STEM fields.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``21st Century STEM for 
Underrepresented Students Act''.

SEC. 2. STEM FOR UNDERREPRESENTED STUDENTS.

    (a) In General.--The Director of the National Science Foundation 
shall establish a program to provide grants on a merit-reviewed, 
competitive basis for research on programming that engages 
underrepresented students in grades kindergarten through 8 in STEM in 
order to prepare these groups to pursue undergraduate and graduate 
degrees or careers in STEM.
    (b) Use of Funds.--
            (1) In general.--Grants awarded under this section shall be 
        used toward research to advance the engagement of 
        underrepresented students grades kindergarten through 8 in STEM 
        through providing before-school, after-school, out-of-school, 
        or summer activities, including programs (if applicable to the 
        target population) provided in a single-gender environment, 
        that are designed to encourage interest, engagement, and skills 
        development of underrepresented students in STEM. Such research 
        shall be conducted in learning environments that actively 
        provide programming to underrepresented students in grades 
        kindergarten through 8 in STEM.
            (2) Permitted activities.--Such activities may include--
                    (A) the provision of programming described in 
                subsection (a) for the purpose of research;
                    (B) the use of a variety of engagement methods 
                including cooperative and hands-on learning;
                    (C) exposure of underrepresented youth to role 
                models in the fields of STEM and near-peer mentors;
                    (D) training of informal learning educators and 
                youth-serving professionals using evidence-based 
                methods consistent with the target student population 
                being served;
                    (E) education of students on the relevance and 
                significance of STEM careers, provision of academic 
                advice and assistance, and activities designed to help 
                students make real-world connections to STEM content 
                activities;
                    (F) the attendance of underrepresented youth at 
                events, competitions, and academic programs to provide 
                content expertise and encourage career exposure in 
                STEM;
                    (G) activities designed to engage parents of 
                underrepresented youth;
                    (H) innovative strategies to engage 
                underrepresented youth, such as using leadership skill 
                outcome measures to encourage youth with the confidence 
                to pursue STEM coursework and academic study;
                    (I) coordination with STEM-rich environments, 
                including other nonprofit, nongovernmental 
                organizations, classroom and out-of-classroom settings, 
                institutions of higher education, vocational 
                facilities, corporations, museums, or science centers; 
                and
                    (J) the acquisition of instructional materials or 
                technology-based tools to conduct applicable grant 
                activity.
    (c) Application.--An applicant seeking funding under the section 
shall submit an application at such time, in such manner, and 
containing such information as may be required. The application shall 
include, at a minimum, the following:
            (1) A description of the target audience to be served by 
        the program, including an explanation and justification for why 
        the target group ought to be considered as underrepresented 
        students in one or more of the STEM fields.
            (2) A description of the process for recruitment and 
        selection of students.
            (3) A description of how such research activity may inform 
        programming that engages underrepresented students in grades 
        kindergarten through 8 in STEM.
            (4) A description of how such research activity may inform 
        programming that promotes student academic achievement in STEM.
            (5) An evaluation plan that includes, at a minimum, the use 
        of outcome-oriented measures to determine the impact and 
        efficacy of programming being researched.
    (d) Awards.--In awarding grants under this section, the Director 
shall give priority to applicants which, for the purpose of grant 
activity, include or partner with a nonprofit, nongovernmental 
organization that has extensive experience and expertise in increasing 
the participation of underrepresented students in STEM.
    (e) Evaluations.--Each applicant that receives funds under this 
section shall provide, at the conclusion of every year during which the 
funds are received, an evaluation in a form prescribed by the Director. 
This evaluation shall include both formative and summative evaluation.
    (f) Accountability and Dissemination.--
            (1) Evaluation required.--Not later than 3 years after the 
        date of enactment of this Act, the Director shall evaluate the 
        program established under this section. In addition to 
        evaluating the effectiveness of the program, such evaluation 
        shall--
                    (A) use a common set of benchmarks and assessment 
                tools to identify best practices and materials 
                developed or demonstrated by the research; and
                    (B) to the extent practicable, combine the research 
                resulting from the grant activity with the current 
                research on serving underrepresented students in grades 
                kindergarten through 8.
            (2) Report on evaluations.--Not later than 180 days after 
        the completion of the evaluation under paragraph (1), the 
        Director shall submit to Congress and make widely available to 
        the public a report that includes--
                    (A) the results of the evaluation; and
                    (B) any recommendations for administrative and 
                legislative action that could optimize the 
                effectiveness of the program.
    (g) Coordination.--In carrying out this section, the Director shall 
consult, cooperate, and coordinate, to enhance program effectiveness 
and to avoid duplication, with the programs and policies of other 
relevant Federal agencies.
                                 <all>
