
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H. Res. 616 Engrossed in House (EH)]

H. Res. 616

                In the House of Representatives, U. S.,

                                                         June 11, 2014.
    Resolved, That (a) at any time after adoption of this resolution the Speaker 
may, pursuant to clause 2(b) of rule XVIII, declare the House resolved into the 
Committee of the Whole House on the state of the Union for consideration of the 
bill (H.R. 4800) making appropriations for Agriculture, Rural Development, Food 
and Drug Administration, and Related Agencies programs for the fiscal year 
ending September 30, 2015, and for other purposes. The first reading of the bill 
shall be dispensed with. All points of order against consideration of the bill 
are waived. General debate shall be confined to the bill and shall not exceed 
one hour equally divided and controlled by the chair and ranking minority member 
of the Committee on Appropriations. After general debate the bill shall be 
considered for amendment under the five-minute rule. Points of order against 
provisions in the bill for failure to comply with clause 2 of rule XXI are 
waived.
     (b) During consideration of the bill for amendment--
            (1) each amendment, other than amendments provided for in paragraph 
        (2), shall be debatable for 10 minutes equally divided and controlled by 
        the proponent and an opponent and shall not be subject to amendment 
        except as provided in paragraph (2);
            (2) no pro forma amendment shall be in order except that the chair 
        and ranking minority member of the Committee on Appropriations or their 
        respective designees may offer up to 10 pro forma amendments each at any 
        point for the purpose of debate; and
            (3) the chair of the Committee of the Whole may accord priority in 
        recognition on the basis of whether the Member offering an amendment has 
        caused it to be printed in the portion of the Congressional Record 
        designated for that purpose in clause 8 of rule XVIII. Amendments so 
        printed shall be considered as read.
    (c) When the committee rises and reports the bill back to the House with a 
recommendation that the bill do pass, the previous question shall be considered 
as ordered on the bill and amendments thereto to final passage without 
intervening motion except one motion to recommit with or without instructions.
    Sec. 2.  Upon adoption of this resolution it shall be in order to consider 
in the House the bill (H.R. 4457) to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to 
permanently extend increased expensing limitations, and for other purposes. All 
points of order against consideration of the bill are waived. The amendment in 
the nature of a substitute recommended by the Committee on Ways and Means now 
printed in the bill, modified by the amendment printed in the report of the 
Committee on Rules accompanying this resolution, shall be considered as adopted. 
The bill, as amended, shall be considered as read. All points of order against 
provisions in the bill, as amended, are waived. The previous question shall be 
considered as ordered on the bill, as amended, and on any amendment thereto to 
final passage without intervening motion except: (1) one hour of debate equally 
divided and controlled by the chair and ranking minority member of the Committee 
on Ways and Means; and (2) one motion to recommit with or without instructions.
    Sec. 3.  Upon adoption of this resolution it shall be in order to consider 
in the House the bill (H.R. 4453) to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to 
make permanent the reduced recognition period for built-in gains of S 
corporations. All points of order against consideration of the bill are waived. 
In lieu of the amendment in the nature of a substitute recommended by the 
Committee on Ways and Means now printed in the bill, an amendment in the nature 
of a substitute consisting of the text of Rules Committee Print 113-46 shall be 
considered as adopted. The bill, as amended, shall be considered as read. All 
points of order against provisions in the bill, as amended, are waived. The 
previous question shall be considered as ordered on the bill, as amended, and on 
any further amendment thereto, to final passage without intervening motion 
except: (1) one hour of debate equally divided and controlled by the chair and 
ranking minority member of the Committee on Ways and Means; and (2) one motion 
to recommit with or without instructions.
            Attest:

                                                                          Clerk.
