
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 4884 Introduced in House (IH)]

113th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                H. R. 4884

      For the relief of Zenon Kolenda and Orysya Bilyanska Kolenda.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                             June 17, 2014

  Mr. Maffei introduced the following bill; which was referred to the 
                       Committee on the Judiciary

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
      For the relief of Zenon Kolenda and Orysya Bilyanska Kolenda.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. PERMANENT RESIDENT STATUS FOR ZENON KOLENDA AND ORYSYA 
              BILYANSKA KOLENDA.

    (a) In General.--Notwithstanding subsections (a) and (b) of section 
201 of the Immigration and Nationality Act, Zenon Kolenda and Orysya 
Bilyanska Kolenda shall each be eligible for issuance of an immigrant 
visa or for adjustment of status to that of an alien lawfully admitted 
for permanent residence upon filing an application for issuance of an 
immigrant visa under section 204 of such Act or for adjustment of 
status to lawful permanent resident.
    (b) Adjustment of Status.--If Zenon Kolenda or Orysya Bilyanska 
Kolenda enters the United States before the filing deadline specified 
in subsection (c), he or she shall be considered to have entered and 
remained lawfully and shall, if otherwise eligible, be eligible for 
adjustment of status under section 245 of the Immigration and 
Nationality Act as of the date of the enactment of this Act.
    (c) Deadline for Application and Payment of Fees.--Subsections (a) 
and (b) shall apply only if the application for issuance of an 
immigrant visa or the application for adjustment of status is filed 
with appropriate fees within 2 years after the date of the enactment of 
this Act.
    (d) Reduction of Immigrant Visa Number.--Upon the granting of an 
immigrant visa or permanent residence to Zenon Kolenda and Orysya 
Bilyanska Kolenda, the Secretary of State shall instruct the proper 
officer to reduce by 2, during the current or next following fiscal 
year, the total number of immigrant visas that are made available to 
natives of the country of the aliens' birth under section 203(a) of the 
Immigration and Nationality Act or, if applicable, the total number of 
immigrant visas that are made available to natives of the country of 
the aliens' birth under section 202(e) of such Act.
    (e) Denial of Preferential Immigration Treatment for Certain 
Relatives.--The natural parents, brothers, and sisters of Zenon Kolenda 
and Orysya Bilyanska Kolenda shall not, by virtue of such relationship, 
be accorded any right, privilege, or status under the Immigration and 
Nationality Act.
                                 <all>
