
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 2775 Enrolled Bill (ENR)]

        H.R.2775

                     One Hundred Thirteenth Congress

                                 of the

                        United States of America


                          AT THE FIRST SESSION

          Begun and held at the City of Washington on Thursday,
           the third day of January, two thousand and thirteen


                                 An Act


 
 Making continuing appropriations for the fiscal year ending September 
                    30, 2014, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled, The following sums are 
hereby appropriated, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise 
appropriated, and out of applicable corporate or other revenues, 
receipts, and funds, for the several departments, agencies, 
corporations, and other organizational units of Government for fiscal 
year 2014, and for other purposes, namely:

            DIVISION A--CONTINUING APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2014

    Sec. 101. (a) Such amounts as may be necessary, at a rate for 
operations as provided in the applicable appropriations Acts for fiscal 
year 2013 and under the authority and conditions provided in such Acts, 
for continuing projects or activities (including the costs of direct 
loans and loan guarantees) that are not otherwise specifically provided 
for in this joint resolution, that were conducted in fiscal year 2013, 
and for which appropriations, funds, or other authority were made 
available in the following appropriations Acts:
        (1) The Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug 
    Administration, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2013 
    (division A of Public Law 113-6), except section 735.
        (2) The Commerce, Justice, Science, and Related Agencies 
    Appropriations Act, 2013 (division B of Public Law 113-6).
        (3) The Department of Defense Appropriations Act, 2013 
    (division C of Public Law 113-6).
        (4) The Department of Homeland Security Appropriations Act, 
    2013 (division D of Public Law 113-6).
        (5) The Military Construction and Veterans Affairs, and Related 
    Agencies Appropriations Act, 2013 (division E of Public Law 113-6).
        (6) The Full-Year Continuing Appropriations Act, 2013 (division 
    F of Public Law 113-6).
    (b) The rate for operations provided by subsection (a) for each 
account shall be calculated to reflect the full amount of any reduction 
required in fiscal year 2013 pursuant to--
        (1) any provision of division G of the Consolidated and Further 
    Continuing Appropriations Act, 2013 (Public Law 113-6), including 
    section 3004; and
        (2) the Presidential sequestration order dated March 1, 2013, 
    except as attributable to budget authority made available by--
            (A) sections 140(b) or 141(b) of the Continuing 
        Appropriations Resolution, 2013 (Public Law 112-175); or
            (B) the Disaster Relief Appropriations Act, 2013 (Public 
        Law 113-2).
    Sec. 102. (a) No appropriation or funds made available or authority 
granted pursuant to section 101 for the Department of Defense shall be 
used for: (1) the new production of items not funded for production in 
fiscal year 2013 or prior years; (2) the increase in production rates 
above those sustained with fiscal year 2013 funds; or (3) the 
initiation, resumption, or continuation of any project, activity, 
operation, or organization (defined as any project, subproject, 
activity, budget activity, program element, and subprogram within a 
program element, and for any investment items defined as a P-1 line 
item in a budget activity within an appropriation account and an R-1 
line item that includes a program element and subprogram element within 
an appropriation account) for which appropriations, funds, or other 
authority were not available during fiscal year 2013.
    (b) No appropriation or funds made available or authority granted 
pursuant to section 101 for the Department of Defense shall be used to 
initiate multi-year procurements utilizing advance procurement funding 
for economic order quantity procurement unless specifically 
appropriated later.
    Sec. 103.  Appropriations made by section 101 shall be available to 
the extent and in the manner that would be provided by the pertinent 
appropriations Act.
    Sec. 104.  Except as otherwise provided in section 102, no 
appropriation or funds made available or authority granted pursuant to 
section 101 shall be used to initiate or resume any project or activity 
for which appropriations, funds, or other authority were not available 
during fiscal year 2013.
    Sec. 105.  Appropriations made and authority granted pursuant to 
this joint resolution shall cover all obligations or expenditures 
incurred for any project or activity during the period for which funds 
or authority for such project or activity are available under this 
joint resolution.
    Sec. 106.  Unless otherwise provided for in this joint resolution 
or in the applicable appropriations Act for fiscal year 2014, 
appropriations and funds made available and authority granted pursuant 
to this joint resolution shall be available until whichever of the 
following first occurs: (1) the enactment into law of an appropriation 
for any project or activity provided for in this joint resolution; (2) 
the enactment into law of the applicable appropriations Act for fiscal 
year 2014 without any provision for such project or activity; or (3) 
January 15, 2014.
    Sec. 107.  Expenditures made pursuant to this joint resolution 
shall be charged to the applicable appropriation, fund, or 
authorization whenever a bill in which such applicable appropriation, 
fund, or authorization is contained is enacted into law.
    Sec. 108.  Appropriations made and funds made available by or 
authority granted pursuant to this joint resolution may be used without 
regard to the time limitations for submission and approval of 
apportionments set forth in section 1513 of title 31, United States 
Code, but nothing in this joint resolution may be construed to waive 
any other provision of law governing the apportionment of funds.
    Sec. 109.  Notwithstanding any other provision of this joint 
resolution, except section 106, for those programs that would otherwise 
have high initial rates of operation or complete distribution of 
appropriations at the beginning of fiscal year 2014 because of 
distributions of funding to States, foreign countries, grantees, or 
others, such high initial rates of operation or complete distribution 
shall not be made, and no grants shall be awarded for such programs 
funded by this joint resolution that would impinge on final funding 
prerogatives.
    Sec. 110.  This joint resolution shall be implemented so that only 
the most limited funding action of that permitted in the joint 
resolution shall be taken in order to provide for continuation of 
projects and activities.
    Sec. 111. (a) For entitlements and other mandatory payments whose 
budget authority was provided in appropriations Acts for fiscal year 
2013, and for activities under the Food and Nutrition Act of 2008, 
activities shall be continued at the rate to maintain program levels 
under current law, under the authority and conditions provided in the 
applicable appropriations Act for fiscal year 2013, to be continued 
through the date specified in section 106(3).
    (b) Notwithstanding section 106, obligations for mandatory payments 
due on or about the first day of any month that begins after October 
2013 but not later than 30 days after the date specified in section 
106(3) may continue to be made, and funds shall be available for such 
payments.
    Sec. 112.  Amounts made available under section 101 for civilian 
personnel compensation and benefits in each department and agency may 
be apportioned up to the rate for operations necessary to avoid 
furloughs within such department or agency, consistent with the 
applicable appropriations Act for fiscal year 2013, except that such 
authority provided under this section shall not be used until after the 
department or agency has taken all necessary actions to reduce or defer 
non-personnel-related administrative expenses.
    Sec. 113.  Funds appropriated by this joint resolution may be 
obligated and expended notwithstanding section 10 of Public Law 91-672 
(22 U.S.C. 2412), section 15 of the State Department Basic Authorities 
Act of 1956 (22 U.S.C. 2680), section 313 of the Foreign Relations 
Authorization Act, Fiscal Years 1994 and 1995 (22 U.S.C. 6212), and 
section 504(a)(1) of the National Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 
3094(a)(1)).
    Sec. 114. (a) Each amount incorporated by reference in this joint 
resolution that was previously designated by the Congress for Overseas 
Contingency Operations/Global War on Terrorism pursuant to section 
251(b)(2)(A) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act 
of 1985 or as being for disaster relief pursuant to section 
251(b)(2)(D) of such Act is designated by the Congress for Overseas 
Contingency Operations/Global War on Terrorism pursuant to section 
251(b)(2)(A) of such Act or as being for disaster relief pursuant to 
section 251(b)(2)(D) of such Act, respectively.
    (b) Of the amounts made available by section 101 for ``Social 
Security Administration, Limitation on Administrative Expenses'' for 
the cost associated with continuing disability reviews under titles II 
and XVI of the Social Security Act and for the cost associated with 
conducting redeterminations of eligibility under title XVI of the 
Social Security Act, $273,000,000 is provided to meet the terms of 
section 251(b)(2)(B)(ii)(III) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency 
Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended, and $469,639,000 is additional 
new budget authority specified for purposes of section 251(b)(2)(B) of 
such Act.
    (c) Section 5 of Public Law 113-6 shall apply to amounts designated 
in subsection (a) for Overseas Contingency Operations/Global War on 
Terrorism.
    Sec. 115. (a) Employees furloughed as a result of any lapse in 
appropriations which begins on or about October 1, 2013, shall be 
compensated at their standard rate of compensation, for the period of 
such lapse in appropriations, as soon as practicable after such lapse 
in appropriations ends.
    (b) For purposes of this section, ``employee'' means:
        (1) a federal employee;
        (2) an employee of the District of Columbia Courts;
        (3) an employee of the Public Defender Service for the District 
    of Columbia; or
        (4) a District of Columbia Government employee.
    (c) All obligations incurred in anticipation of the appropriations 
made and authority granted by this joint resolution for the purposes of 
maintaining the essential level of activity to protect life and 
property and bringing about orderly termination of Government 
functions, and for purposes as otherwise authorized by law, are hereby 
ratified and approved if otherwise in accord with the provisions of 
this joint resolution.
    Sec. 116. (a) If a State (or another Federal grantee) used State 
funds (or the grantee's non-Federal funds) to continue carrying out a 
Federal program or furloughed State employees (or the grantee's 
employees) whose compensation is advanced or reimbursed in whole or in 
part by the Federal Government--
        (1) such furloughed employees shall be compensated at their 
    standard rate of compensation for such period;
        (2) the State (or such other grantee) shall be reimbursed for 
    expenses that would have been paid by the Federal Government during 
    such period had appropriations been available, including the cost 
    of compensating such furloughed employees, together with interest 
    thereon calculated under section 6503(d) of title 31, United States 
    Code; and
        (3) the State (or such other grantee) may use funds available 
    to the State (or the grantee) under such Federal program to 
    reimburse such State (or the grantee), together with interest 
    thereon calculated under section 6503(d) of title 31, United States 
    Code.
    (b) For purposes of this section, the term ``State'' and the term 
``grantee'' shall have the meaning as such term is defined under the 
applicable Federal program under subsection (a). In addition, ``to 
continue carrying out a Federal program'' means the continued 
performance by a State or other Federal grantee, during the period of a 
lapse in appropriations, of a Federal program that the State or such 
other grantee had been carrying out prior to the period of the lapse in 
appropriations.
    (c) The authority under this section applies with respect to any 
period in fiscal year 2014 (not limited to periods beginning or ending 
after the date of the enactment of this joint resolution) during which 
there occurs a lapse in appropriations with respect to any department 
or agency of the Federal Government which, but for such lapse in 
appropriations, would have paid, or made reimbursement relating to, any 
of the expenses referred to in this section with respect to the program 
involved. Payments and reimbursements under this authority shall be 
made only to the extent and in amounts provided in advance in 
appropriations Acts.
    Sec. 117.  Expenditures made pursuant to the Pay Our Military Act 
(Public Law 113-39) shall be charged to the applicable appropriation, 
fund, or authorization provided in this joint resolution.
    Sec. 118.  For the purposes of this joint resolution, the time 
covered by this joint resolution shall be considered to have begun on 
October 1, 2013.
    Sec. 119.  Section 3003 of division G of Public Law 113-6 shall be 
applied to funds appropriated by this joint resolution by substituting 
``fiscal year 2014'' for ``fiscal year 2013'' each place it appears.
    Sec. 120.  Section 408 of the Food for Peace Act (7 U.S.C. 1736b) 
shall be applied by substituting the date specified in section 106(3) 
of this joint resolution for ``December 31, 2012''.
    Sec. 121.  Amounts made available under section 101 for 
``Department of Commerce--National Oceanic and Atmospheric 
Administration--Procurement, Acquisition and Construction'' may be 
apportioned up to the rate for operations necessary to maintain the 
planned launch schedules for the Joint Polar Satellite System and the 
Geostationary Operational Environmental Satellite system.
    Sec. 122.  The authority provided by sections 1205 and 1206 of the 
National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2012 (Public Law 
112-81) shall continue in effect, notwithstanding subsection (h) of 
section 1206, through the earlier of the date specified in section 
106(3) of this joint resolution or the date of the enactment of an Act 
authorizing appropriations for fiscal year 2014 for military activities 
of the Department of Defense.
    Sec. 123.  Section 3(a)(6) of Public Law 100-676 is amended by 
striking both occurrences of ``$775,000,000'' and inserting in lieu 
thereof, ``$2,918,000,000''.
    Sec. 124.  Section 14704 of title 40, United States Code, shall be 
applied to amounts made available by this joint resolution by 
substituting the date specified in section 106(3) of this joint 
resolution for ``October 1, 2012''.
    Sec. 125.  Notwithstanding section 101, amounts are provided for 
``The Judiciary--Courts of Appeals, District Courts, and Other Judicial 
Services--Salaries and Expenses'' at a rate of operations of 
$4,820,181,000:  Provided, That notwithstanding section 302 of Division 
C, of Public Law 112-74 as continued by Public Law 113-6, not to exceed 
$25,000,000 shall be available for transfer between accounts to 
maintain minimum operating levels.
    Sec. 126.  Notwithstanding section 101, amounts are provided for 
``The Judiciary--Courts of Appeals, District Courts, and Other Judicial 
Services--Defender Services'' at a rate for operations of 
$1,012,000,000.
    Sec. 127.  Notwithstanding any other provision of this joint 
resolution, the District of Columbia may expend local funds under the 
heading ``District of Columbia Funds'' for such programs and activities 
under title IV of H.R. 2786 (113th Congress), as reported by the 
Committee on Appropriations of the House of Representatives, at the 
rate set forth under ``District of Columbia Funds--Summary of 
Expenses'' as included in the Fiscal Year 2014 Budget Request Act of 
2013 (D.C. Act 20-127), as modified as of the date of the enactment of 
this joint resolution.
    Sec. 128.  Section 302 of the Universal Service Anti-deficiency 
Temporary Suspension Act is amended by striking ``December 31, 2013'', 
each place it appears and inserting ``January 15, 2014''.
    Sec. 129.  Notwithstanding section 101, amounts are provided for 
the ``Privacy and Civil Liberties Oversight Board'' at a rate for 
operations of $3,100,000.
    Sec. 130.  For the period covered by this joint resolution, section 
550(b) of Public Law 109-295 (6 U.S.C. 121 note) shall be applied by 
substituting the date specified in section 106(3) of this joint 
resolution for ``October 4, 2013''.
    Sec. 131.  The authority provided by section 532 of Public Law 109-
295 shall continue in effect through the date specified in section 
106(3) of this joint resolution.
    Sec. 132.  The authority provided by section 831 of the Homeland 
Security Act of 2002 (6 U.S.C. 391) shall continue in effect through 
the date specified in section 106(3) of this joint resolution.
    Sec. 133. (a) Any amounts made available pursuant to section 101 
for ``Department of Homeland Security--U.S. Customs and Border 
Protection--Salaries and Expenses'', ``Department of Homeland 
Security--U.S. Customs and Border Protection--Border Security Fencing, 
Infrastructure, and Technology'', ``Department of Homeland Security--
U.S. Customs and Border Protection--Air and Marine Operations'', and 
``Department of Homeland Security--U.S. Immigration and Customs 
Enforcement--Salaries and Expenses'' shall be obligated at a rate for 
operations as necessary to respectively--
        (1) sustain the staffing levels of U.S. Customs and Border 
    Protection Officers, equivalent to the staffing levels achieved on 
    September 30, 2013, and comply with the last proviso under the 
    heading ``Department of Homeland Security--U.S. Customs and Border 
    Protection--Salaries and Expenses'' in division D of Public Law 
    113-6;
        (2) sustain border security operations, including sustaining 
    the operation of Tethered Aerostat Radar Systems;
        (3) sustain necessary Air and Marine operations; and
        (4) sustain the staffing levels of U.S. Immigration and Customs 
    Enforcement agents, equivalent to the staffing levels achieved on 
    September 30, 2013, and comply with the sixth proviso under the 
    heading ``Department of Homeland Security--U.S. Immigration and 
    Customs Enforcement--Salaries and Expenses'' in division D of 
    Public Law 113-6.
    (b) The Secretary of Homeland Security shall notify the Committees 
on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the Senate on 
each use of the authority provided in this section.
    Sec. 134.  Section 810 of the Federal Lands Recreation Enhancement 
Act (16 U.S.C. 6809) shall be applied by substituting ``11 years'' for 
``10 years''.
    Sec. 135.  In addition to the amount otherwise provided by section 
101 for ``Department of the Interior--Department-wide Programs--
Wildland Fire Management'', there is appropriated $36,000,000 for an 
additional amount for fiscal year 2014, to remain available until 
expended, for urgent wildland fire suppression activities:  Provided, 
That of the funds provided, $15,000,000 is for burned area 
rehabilitation:  Provided further, That such funds shall only become 
available if funds previously provided for wildland fire suppression 
will be exhausted imminently and the Secretary of the Interior notifies 
the Committees on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and 
the Senate in writing of the need for these additional funds:  Provided 
further, That such funds are also available for transfer to other 
appropriations accounts to repay amounts previously transferred for 
wildfire suppression.
    Sec. 136.  In addition to the amount otherwise provided by section 
101 for ``Department of Agriculture--Forest Service--Wildland Fire 
Management'', there is appropriated $600,000,000 for an additional 
amount for fiscal year 2014, to remain available until expended, for 
urgent wildland fire suppression activities:  Provided, That such funds 
shall only become available if funds previously provided for wildland 
fire suppression will be exhausted imminently and the Secretary of 
Agriculture notifies the Committees on Appropriations of the House of 
Representatives and the Senate in writing of the need for these 
additional funds:  Provided further, That such funds are also available 
for transfer to other appropriations accounts to repay amounts 
previously transferred for wildfire suppression.
    Sec. 137.  The authority provided by section 347 of the Department 
of the Interior and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 1999 (as 
contained in section 101(e) of division A of Public Law 105-277; 16 
U.S.C. 2104 note) shall continue in effect through the date specified 
in section 106(3) of this joint resolution.
    Sec. 138. (a) The authority provided by subsection (m)(3) of 
section 8162 of the Department of Defense Appropriations Act, 2000 (40 
U.S.C. 8903 note; Public Law 106-79), as amended, shall continue in 
effect through the date specified in section 106(3) of this joint 
resolution.
    (b) For the period covered by this joint resolution, the authority 
provided by the provisos under the heading ``Dwight D. Eisenhower 
Memorial Commission--Capital Construction'' in division E of Public Law 
112-74 shall not be in effect.
    Sec. 139.  Activities authorized under part A of title IV and 
section 1108(b) of the Social Security Act (except for activities 
authorized in section 403(b)) shall continue through the date specified 
in section 106(3) of this joint resolution in the manner authorized for 
fiscal year 2013, and out of any money in the Treasury of the United 
States not otherwise appropriated, there are hereby appropriated such 
sums as may be necessary for such purpose.
    Sec. 140.  Notwithstanding section 101, the matter under the 
heading ``Department of Labor--Mine Safety and Health Administration--
Salaries and Expenses'' in division F of Public Law 112-74 shall be 
applied to funds appropriated by this joint resolution by substituting 
``is authorized to collect and retain up to $2,499,000'' for ``may 
retain up to $1,499,000''.
    Sec. 141.  The first proviso under the heading ``Department of 
Health and Human Services--Administration for Children and Families--
Low Income Home Energy Assistance'' in division F of Public Law 112-74 
shall be applied to amounts made available by this joint resolution by 
substituting ``2014'' for ``2012''.
    Sec. 142.  Amounts provided by section 101 for ``Department of 
Health and Human Services--Administration for Children and Families--
Refugee and Entrant Assistance'' may be obligated up to a rate for 
operations necessary to maintain program operations at the level 
provided in fiscal year 2013, as necessary to accommodate increased 
demand.
    Sec. 143.  During the period covered by this joint resolution, 
amounts provided under section 101 for ``Department of Health and Human 
Services--Office of the Secretary--Public Health and Social Services 
Emergency Fund'' may be obligated at a rate necessary to assure timely 
execution of planned advanced research and development contracts 
pursuant to section 319L of the Public Health Service Act, to remain 
available until expended, for expenses necessary to support advanced 
research and development pursuant to section 319L of the Public Health 
Service Act (42 U.S.C. 247d-7e) and other administrative expenses of 
the Biomedical Advanced Research and Development Authority.
    Sec. 144.  Subsection (b) of section 163 of Public Law 111-242, as 
amended, is further amended by striking ``2013-2014'' and inserting 
``2015-2016''.
    Sec. 145.  Notwithstanding any other provision of this joint 
resolution, there is appropriated for payment to Bonnie Englebardt 
Lautenberg, widow of Frank R. Lautenberg, late a Senator from New 
Jersey, $174,000.
    Sec. 146.  Notwithstanding any other provision of law, no 
adjustment shall be made under section 610(a) of the Legislative 
Reorganization Act of 1946 (2 U.S.C. 31) (relating to cost of living 
adjustments for Members of Congress) during fiscal year 2014.
    Sec. 147.  Notwithstanding section 101, amounts are provided for 
``Department of Veterans Affairs--Departmental Administration--General 
Operating Expenses, Veterans Benefits Administration'' at a rate for 
operations of $2,455,490,000.
    Sec. 148.  The authority provided by the penultimate proviso under 
the heading ``Department of Housing and Urban Development--Rental 
Assistance Demonstration'' in division C of Public Law 112-55 shall 
continue in effect through the date specified in section 106(3) of this 
joint resolution.
    Sec. 149.  Notwithstanding section 101, amounts are provided for 
``Department of Transportation--Federal Aviation Administration--
Operations'', at a rate for operations of $9,248,418,000.
    Sec. 150.  Section 601(e)(1)(B) of division B of Public Law 110-432 
shall be applied by substituting the date specified in section 106(3) 
for ``4 years after such date''.
    Sec. 151.  Notwithstanding section 101, amounts are provided for 
``Maritime Administration--Maritime Security Program'', at a rate for 
operations of $186,000,000.
    Sec. 152.  Section 44302 of title 49, United States Code, is 
amended in paragraph (f) by deleting ``September 30, 2013, and may 
extend through December 31, 2013'' and inserting ``the date specified 
in section 106(3) of the Continuing Appropriations Act, 2014'' in lieu 
thereof.
    Sec. 153.  Section 44303 of title 49, United States Code, is 
amended in paragraph (b) by deleting ``December 31, 2013'' and 
inserting ``the date specified in section 106(3) of the Continuing 
Appropriations Act, 2014'' in lieu thereof.
    Sec. 154.  Section 44310 of title 49, United States Code, is 
amended by deleting ``December 31, 2013'' and inserting ``the date 
specified in section 106(3) of the Continuing Appropriations Act, 
2014'' in lieu thereof.
    Sec. 155.  Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the 
Secretary of Transportation may obligate not more than $450,000,000 of 
the amounts made available to carry out section 125 of title 23, United 
States Code, under chapter 9 of title X of division A of the Disaster 
Relief Appropriations Act, 2013 (Public Law 113-2; 127 Stat. 34) under 
the heading ``emergency relief program'' under the heading ``federal-
aid highways'' under the heading ``Federal Highway Administration'' for 
emergency relief projects in the State of Colorado arising from damage 
caused by flooding events in that State in calendar year 2013:  
Provided, That such amount is designated by the Congress as an 
emergency requirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the 
Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
    Sec. 156.  Notwithstanding any other provision of this division, 
any reference in this division to ``this joint resolution'' shall be 
deemed a reference to ``this Act''.
    Sec. 157.  Fourteen days after the Department of Homeland Security 
submits a report or expenditure plan required under this division to 
the Committees on Appropriations of the Senate and House of 
Representatives, the Secretary shall submit a copy of that report to 
the Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs of the 
Senate and the Committee on Homeland Security of the House of 
Representatives.

                       DIVISION B--OTHER MATTERS

   verification of household income and other qualifications for the 
          provision of aca premium and cost-sharing subsidies

    Sec. 1001. (a) In General.--Notwithstanding any other provision of 
law, the Secretary of Health and Human Services (referred to in this 
section as the ``Secretary'') shall ensure that American Health Benefit 
Exchanges verify that individuals applying for premium tax credits 
under section 36B of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 and reductions 
in cost-sharing under section 1402 of the Patient Protection and 
Affordable Care Act (42 U.S.C. 18071) are eligible for such credits and 
cost sharing reductions consistent with the requirements of section 
1411 of such Act (42 U.S.C. 18081), and, prior to making such credits 
and reductions available, the Secretary shall certify to the Congress 
that the Exchanges verify such eligibility consistent with the 
requirements of such Act.
    (b) Report by Secretary.--Not later than January 1, 2014, the 
Secretary shall submit a report to the Congress that details the 
procedures employed by American Health Benefit Exchanges to verify 
eligibility for credits and cost-sharing reductions described in 
subsection (a).
    (c) Report by Inspector General.--Not later than July 1, 2014, the 
Inspector General of the Department of Health and Human Services shall 
submit to the Congress a report regarding the effectiveness of the 
procedures and safeguards provided under the Patient Protection and 
Affordable Care Act for preventing the submission of inaccurate or 
fraudulent information by applicants for enrollment in a qualified 
health plan offered through an American Health Benefit Exchange.

                           default prevention

    Sec. 1002. (a) Short Title.--This section may be cited as the 
``Default Prevention Act of 2013''.
    (b) Certification.--Not later than 3 days after the date of 
enactment of this Act, the President may submit to Congress a written 
certification that absent a suspension of the limit under section 
3101(b) of title 31, United States Code, the Secretary of the Treasury 
would be unable to issue debt to meet existing commitments.
    (c) Suspension.--
        (1) In general.--Section 3101(b) of title 31, United States 
    Code, shall not apply for the period beginning on the date on which 
    the President submits to Congress a certification under subsection 
    (b) and ending on February 7, 2014.
        (2) Special rule relating to obligations issued during 
    suspension period.--Effective February 8, 2014, the limitation in 
    section 3101(b) of title 31, United States Code, as increased by 
    section 3101A of such title and section 2 of the No Budget, No Pay 
    Act of 2013 (31 U.S.C. 3101 note), is increased to the extent 
    that--
            (A) the face amount of obligations issued under chapter 31 
        of such title and the face amount of obligations whose 
        principal and interest are guaranteed by the United States 
        Government (except guaranteed obligations held by the Secretary 
        of the Treasury) outstanding on February 8, 2014, exceeds
            (B) the face amount of such obligations outstanding on the 
        date of enactment of this Act.
    An obligation shall not be taken into account under subparagraph 
    (A) unless the issuance of such obligation was necessary to fund a 
    commitment incurred by the Federal Government that required payment 
    before February 8, 2014.
    (d) Disapproval.--If there is enacted into law within 22 calendar 
days after Congress receives a written certification by the President 
under subsection (b) a joint resolution disapproving the President's 
exercise of authority to suspend the debt ceiling under subsection (e), 
effective on the date of enactment of the joint resolution, subsection 
(c) is amended to read as follows:
    ``(c) Suspension.--
        ``(1) In general.--Section 3101(b) of title 31, United States 
    Code, shall not apply for the period beginning on the date on which 
    the President submits to Congress a certification under subsection 
    (b) and ending on the date of enactment of the joint resolution 
    pursuant to section 1002(e) of the Continuing Appropriations Act, 
    2014.
        ``(2) Special rule relating to obligations issued during 
    suspension period.--Effective on the day after the date of 
    enactment of the joint resolution pursuant to section 1002(e) of 
    the Continuing Appropriations Act, 2014, the limitation in section 
    3101(b) of title 31, United States Code, as increased by section 
    3101A of such title and section 2 of the No Budget, No Pay Act of 
    2013 (31 U.S.C. 3101 note), is increased to the extent that--
            ``(A) the face amount of obligations issued under chapter 
        31 of such title and the face amount of obligations whose 
        principal and interest are guaranteed by the United States 
        Government (except guaranteed obligations held by the Secretary 
        of the Treasury) outstanding on the day after the date of 
        enactment of the joint resolution pursuant to section 1002(e) 
        of the Continuing Appropriations Act, 2014, exceeds
            ``(B) the face amount of such obligations outstanding on 
        the date of enactment of this Act.
    An obligation shall not be taken into account under subparagraph 
    (A) unless the issuance of such obligation was necessary to fund a 
    commitment incurred by the Federal Government that required payment 
    before the day after the date of enactment of the joint resolution 
    pursuant to section 1002(e) of the Continuing Appropriations Act, 
    2014.''.
    (e) Disapproval Process.--
        (1) Contents of joint resolution.--For the purpose of this 
    subsection, the term ``joint resolution'' means only a joint 
    resolution--
            (A) disapproving the President's exercise of authority to 
        suspend the debt limit that is introduced within 14 calendar 
        days after the date on which the President submits to Congress 
        the certification under subsection (b);
            (B) which does not have a preamble;
            (C) the title of which is only as follows: ``Joint 
        resolution relating to the disapproval of the President's 
        exercise of authority to suspend the debt limit, as submitted 
        under section 1002(b) of the Continuing Appropriations Act, 
        2014 on _____'' (with the blank containing the date of such 
        submission); and
            (D) the matter after the resolving clause of which is only 
        as follows: ``That Congress disapproves of the President's 
        exercise of authority to suspend the debt limit, as exercised 
        pursuant to the certification under section 1002(b) of the 
        Continuing Appropriations Act, 2014.''.
        (2) Expedited consideration in house of representatives.--
            (A) Reporting and discharge.--Any committee of the House of 
        Representatives to which a joint resolution is referred shall 
        report it to the House of Representatives without amendment not 
        later than 5 calendar days after the date of introduction of a 
        joint resolution described in paragraph (1). If a committee 
        fails to report the joint resolution within that period, the 
        committee shall be discharged from further consideration of the 
        joint resolution and the joint resolution shall be referred to 
        the appropriate calendar.
            (B) Proceeding to consideration.--After each committee 
        authorized to consider a joint resolution reports it to the 
        House of Representatives or has been discharged from its 
        consideration, it shall be in order, not later than the sixth 
        day after introduction of a joint resolution under paragraph 
        (1), to move to proceed to consider the joint resolution in the 
        House of Representatives. All points of order against the 
        motion are waived. Such a motion shall not be in order after 
        the House of Representatives has disposed of a motion to 
        proceed on a joint resolution. The previous question shall be 
        considered as ordered on the motion to its adoption without 
        intervening motion. The motion shall not be debatable. A motion 
        to reconsider the vote by which the motion is disposed of shall 
        not be in order.
            (C) Consideration.--The joint resolution shall be 
        considered as read. All points of order against the joint 
        resolution and against its consideration are waived. The 
        previous question shall be considered as ordered on the joint 
        resolution to its passage without intervening motion except 2 
        hours of debate equally divided and controlled by the proponent 
        and an opponent. A motion to reconsider the vote on passage of 
        the joint resolution shall not be in order.
        (3) Expedited procedure in senate.--
            (A) Reconvening.--Upon receipt of a certification under 
        subsection (b), if the Senate would otherwise be adjourned, the 
        majority leader of the Senate, after consultation with the 
        minority leader of the Senate, shall notify the Members of the 
        Senate that, pursuant to this subsection, the Senate shall 
        convene not later than the thirteenth calendar day after 
        receipt of such certification.
            (B) Placement on calendar.--Upon introduction in the 
        Senate, the joint resolution shall be immediately placed on the 
        calendar.
            (C) Floor consideration.--
                (i) In general.--Notwithstanding rule XXII of the 
            Standing Rules of the Senate, it is in order at any time 
            during the period beginning on the day after the date on 
            which Congress receives a certification under subsection 
            (b) and ending on the 6th day after the date of 
            introduction of a joint resolution under paragraph (1) 
            (even if a previous motion to the same effect has been 
            disagreed to) to move to proceed to the consideration of 
            the joint resolution, and all points of order against the 
            joint resolution (and against consideration of the joint 
            resolution) are waived. The motion to proceed is not 
            debatable. The motion is not subject to a motion to 
            postpone. A motion to reconsider the vote by which the 
            motion is agreed to or disagreed to shall not be in order. 
            If a motion to proceed to the consideration of the joint 
            resolution is agreed to, the joint resolution shall remain 
            the unfinished business until disposed of.
                (ii) Consideration.--Consideration of the joint 
            resolution, and on all debatable motions and appeals in 
            connection therewith, shall be limited to not more than 10 
            hours, which shall be divided equally between the majority 
            and minority leaders or their designees. A motion further 
            to limit debate is in order and not debatable. An amendment 
            to, or a motion to postpone, or a motion to proceed to the 
            consideration of other business, or a motion to recommit 
            the joint resolution is not in order.
                (iii) Vote on passage.--If the Senate has voted to 
            proceed to a joint resolution, the vote on passage of the 
            joint resolution shall occur immediately following the 
            conclusion of consideration of the joint resolution, and a 
            single quorum call at the conclusion of the debate if 
            requested in accordance with the rules of the Senate.
                (iv) Rulings of the chair on procedure.--Appeals from 
            the decisions of the Chair relating to the application of 
            the rules of the Senate, as the case may be, to the 
            procedure relating to a joint resolution shall be decided 
            without debate.
        (4) Amendment not in order.--A joint resolution of disapproval 
    considered pursuant to this subsection shall not be subject to 
    amendment in either the House of Representatives or the Senate.
        (5) Coordination with action by other house.--
            (A) In general.--If, before passing the joint resolution, 
        one House receives from the other a joint resolution--
                (i) the joint resolution of the other House shall not 
            be referred to a committee; and
                (ii) the procedure in the receiving House shall be the 
            same as if no joint resolution had been received from the 
            other House, except that the vote on passage shall be on 
            the joint resolution of the other House.
            (B) Treatment of joint resolution of other house.--If the 
        Senate fails to introduce or consider a joint resolution under 
        this subsection, the joint resolution of the House of 
        Representatives shall be entitled to expedited floor procedures 
        under this subsection.
            (C) Treatment of companion measures.--If, following passage 
        of the joint resolution in the Senate, the Senate then receives 
        the companion measure from the House of Representatives, the 
        companion measure shall not be debatable.
            (D) Consideration after passage.--
                (i) In general.--If Congress passes a joint resolution, 
            the period beginning on the date the President is presented 
            with the joint resolution and ending on the date the 
            President signs, allows to become law without his 
            signature, or vetoes and returns the joint resolution (but 
            excluding days when either House is not in session) shall 
            be disregarded in computing the calendar day period 
            described in subsection (d).
                (ii) Debate on a veto message.--Debate on a veto 
            message in the Senate under this subsection shall be 1 hour 
            equally divided between the majority and minority leaders 
            or their designees.
        (6) Rules of house of representatives and senate.--This 
    subsection is enacted by Congress--
            (A) as an exercise of the rulemaking power of the Senate 
        and House of Representatives, respectively, and as such it is 
        deemed a part of the rules of each House, respectively, but 
        applicable only with respect to the procedure to be followed in 
        that House in the case of a joint resolution, and it supersedes 
        other rules only to the extent that it is inconsistent with 
        such rules; and
            (B) with full recognition of the constitutional right of 
        either House to change the rules (so far as relating to the 
        procedure of that House) at any time, in the same manner, and 
        to the same extent as in the case of any other rule of that 
        House.
     This Act may be cited as the ``Continuing Appropriations Act, 
2014''.

                               Speaker of the House of Representatives.

                            Vice President of the United States and    
                                               President of the Senate.
