
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[S. 1877 Introduced in Senate (IS)]

113th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                S. 1877

  To increase the reliability of child support for children, and for 
                            other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                           December 19, 2013

   Mr. Baucus (for himself, Mr. Hatch, Mr. Wyden, Mr. Menendez, Mr. 
Grassley, and Mr. Rockefeller) introduced the following bill; which was 
          read twice and referred to the Committee on Finance

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
  To increase the reliability of child support for children, and for 
                            other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    (a) Short Title.--This Act may be cited as the ``Child Support 
Improvement and Work Promotion Act''.
    (b) Table of Contents.--The table of contents for this Act is as 
follows:

Sec. 1. Short title.
            TITLE I--INCREASED RELIABILITY OF CHILD SUPPORT

Sec. 101. Compliance with multilateral child support conventions.
Sec. 102. Relief from passport sanctions for certain individuals.
Sec. 103. Child support enforcement programs for Indian tribes.
Sec. 104. Parenting time arrangements.
Sec. 105. Efficient use of the national directory of new hires database 
                            for federally sponsored research assessing 
                            the effectiveness of Federal policies and 
                            programs in achieving positive labor market 
                            outcomes.
             TITLE II--CHILD SUPPORT ENFORCEMENT TASK FORCE

Sec. 201. Child Support Enforcement Task Force.
                       TITLE III--EFFECTIVE DATES

Sec. 301. Effective dates.
                      TITLE IV--BUDGETARY EFFECTS

Sec. 401. Determination of budgetary effects.

            TITLE I--INCREASED RELIABILITY OF CHILD SUPPORT

SEC. 101. COMPLIANCE WITH MULTILATERAL CHILD SUPPORT CONVENTIONS.

    (a) Secretary's Authority To Ensure Compliance With Multilateral 
Child Support Convention.--
            (1) In general.--Section 452 of the Social Security Act (42 
        U.S.C. 652) is amended--
                    (A) by redesignating the second subsection (l) (as 
                added by section 7306 of Public Law 109-171) as 
                subsection (m); and
                    (B) by adding at the end the following:
    ``(n) Secretary's Authority To Ensure Compliance With Multilateral 
Child Support Convention.--Consistent with the national policy of the 
United States to fully comply with the obligations of any multilateral 
child support convention to which the United States is a party, the 
Secretary shall utilize Federal and, as appropriate, State enforcement 
mechanisms in furtherance of this policy and take such steps as may be 
necessary within the Secretary's authority to ensure compliance with 
the United States treaty obligations under such convention in the event 
the Secretary determines that a State plan does not comply with such 
obligations.''.
            (2) Conforming amendment.--Section 453(k)(3) of the Social 
        Security Act (42 U.S.C. 653(k)(3)) is amended by striking 
        ``452(l)'' and inserting ``452(m)''.
    (b) Access to the Federal Parent Locator Service.--Section 453(c) 
of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 653(c)) is amended--
            (1) by striking ``and'' at the end of paragraph (3);
            (2) by striking the period at the end of paragraph (4) and 
        inserting ``; and''; and
            (3) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(5) an entity designated as a Central Authority for child 
        support enforcement in a foreign reciprocating country or a 
        foreign treaty country for purposes specified in section 
        459A(c)(2).''.
    (c) State Option To Require Individuals in Foreign Countries To 
Apply Through Their Country's Appropriate Central Authority.--Section 
454 of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 654) is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (4)(A)(ii), by inserting before the 
        semicolon ``(except that, if the individual applying for the 
        services resides in a foreign reciprocating country or foreign 
        treaty country, the State may opt to require the individual to 
        request the services through the Central Authority for child 
        support enforcement in the foreign reciprocating country or the 
        foreign treaty country, and if the individual resides in a 
        foreign country that is not a foreign reciprocating country or 
        a foreign treaty country, a State may accept or reject the 
        application)''; and
            (2) in paragraph (32)--
                    (A) in subparagraph (A), by inserting ``, a foreign 
                treaty country,'' after ``a foreign reciprocating 
                country''; and
                    (B) in subparagraph (C), by striking ``or foreign 
                obligee'' and inserting ``, foreign treaty country, or 
                foreign individual''.
    (d) Amendments to International Support Enforcement Provisions.--
Section 459A of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 659a) is amended--
            (1) in subsection (c)--
                    (A) in the matter preceding paragraph (1), by 
                striking ``foreign countries that are the subject of a 
                declaration under this section'' and inserting 
                ``foreign reciprocating countries or foreign treaty 
                countries''; and
                    (B) in paragraph (2), by inserting ``and foreign 
                treaty countries'' after ``foreign reciprocating 
                countries'';
            (2) in subsection (d), by striking ``the subject of a 
        declaration pursuant to subsection (a)'' and inserting 
        ``foreign reciprocating countries or foreign treaty 
        countries''; and
            (3) by adding at the end the following:
    ``(e) References.--In this part:
            ``(1) Foreign reciprocating country.--The term `foreign 
        reciprocating country' means a foreign country (or political 
        subdivision thereof) with respect to which the Secretary has 
        made a declaration pursuant to subsection (a).
            ``(2) Foreign treaty country.--The term `foreign treaty 
        country' means a foreign country for which the 2007 Family 
        Maintenance Convention is in force.
            ``(3) 2007 family maintenance convention.--The term `2007 
        Family Maintenance Convention' means the Hague Convention of 23 
        November 2007 on the International Recovery of Child Support 
        and Other Forms of Family Maintenance.''.
    (e) Collection of Past-Due Support From Federal Tax Refunds.--
Section 464(a)(2)(A) of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 
664(a)(2)(A)) is amended by striking ``under section 454(4)(A)(ii)'' 
and inserting ``under paragraph (4)(A)(ii) or (32) of section 454''.
    (f) State Law Requirement Concerning the Uniform Interstate Family 
Support Act (UIFSA).--Section 466(f) (42 U.S.C. 666(f)) is amended--
            (1) by striking ``on and after January 1, 1998,'';
            (2) by striking ``and as in effect on August 22, 1996,''; 
        and
            (3) by striking ``adopted as of such date'' and inserting 
        ``adopted as of September 30, 2008''.
    (g) Full Faith and Credit for Child Support Orders.--Section 1738B 
of title 28, United States Code, is amended--
            (1) in subsection (b)--
                    (A) by inserting ``(1) Child.--The term'' before 
                ```child''';
                    (B) by striking ```child's State''' and all that 
                follows through ``a child resides.'';
                    (C) by inserting ``(2) Child's home state.--The 
                term'' before ```child's home State''';
                    (D) by inserting after paragraph (2), as designated 
                by subparagraph (C), the following:
            ``(3) Child's state.--The term `child's State' means the 
        State in which a child resides.'';
                    (E) by inserting ``(4) Child support.--The term'' 
                before ```child support''';
                    (F) by inserting ``(5) Child support order.--The 
                term'' before ```child support order''';
                    (G) by inserting ``(6) Contestant.--The term'' 
                before ```contestant''';
                    (H) by striking ```court' means'' and all that 
                follows through ``modification of a child support 
                order.'';
                    (I) by inserting ``(7) Modification.--The term'' 
                before ```modification''';
                    (J) by inserting ``(8) State.--The term'' before 
                ```State'''; and
                    (K) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(9) Tribunal.--The term `tribunal' means a court or 
        administrative agency of a State that is authorized by State 
        law to establish the amount of child support payable by a 
        contestant or make a modification of a child support order.'';
            (2) by striking ``court'' each place it appears except 
        subsection (b)(9), as added by paragraph (1) of this section, 
        and inserting ``tribunal'';
            (3) by striking ``courts'' each place it appears and 
        inserting ``tribunals'';
            (4) in subsection (c)(1), by striking ``subsections (e), 
        (f), and (g)'' and inserting ``this section'';
            (5) by striking subsection (i);
            (6) by redesignating subsections (e), (f), (g), and (h) as 
        subsections (f), (g), (h), and (i), respectively;
            (7) by striking subsection (d) and inserting the following:
    ``(d) Continuing, Exclusive Jurisdiction.--A tribunal of a State 
that has made a child support order consistently with this section has 
continuing, exclusive jurisdiction to modify the order if--
            ``(1) the order is the controlling order, as determined 
        under subsection (g); and
            ``(2)(A) the State is the child's State or the residence of 
        any individual contestant; or
            ``(B) the contestants provide consent (by providing consent 
        in a record or in a hearing) for the tribunal to continue to 
        exercise jurisdiction to modify the order.
    ``(e) Restrictions on Exercising Continuing, Exclusive 
Jurisdiction.--A tribunal of a State that has made a child support 
order may not exercise continuing, exclusive jurisdiction to modify the 
order if--
            ``(1) each individual contestant files a consent in a 
        record with the issuing tribunal stating that a tribunal of 
        another State (which has jurisdiction of at least 1 of the 
        individual contestants or that is a tribunal of the State of 
        the residence of the child) may modify the order and assume 
        continuing, exclusive jurisdiction; or
            ``(2) the order is not the controlling order, as determined 
        under subsection (g).'';
            (8) in subsection (f), as redesignated by paragraph (6) of 
        this section--
                    (A) in paragraph (1), by striking ``subsection 
                (i)'' and inserting ``subsection (j)''; and
                    (B) in paragraph (2)--
                            (i) in subparagraph (A), by inserting ``and 
                        the contestants have not provided consent (by 
                        providing consent in a record or in a hearing) 
                        for the tribunal of the other State to continue 
                        to exercise jurisdiction to modify the order'' 
                        before the semicolon; and
                            (ii) in subparagraph (B), by inserting 
                        ``with jurisdiction of at least 1 of the 
                        individual contestants or that is a tribunal of 
                        the State of the residence of the child'' after 
                        ``of another State'';
            (9) in subsection (g), as redesignated by paragraph (6) of 
        this section--
                    (A) in the subsection heading, by striking 
                ``Recognition of Child Support Orders'' and inserting 
                ``Determination of Controlling Child Support Order'';
                    (B) in the matter preceding paragraph (1), by 
                striking ``to recognize for purposes of continuing, 
                exclusive jurisdiction and enforcement'' and inserting 
                ``is the controlling order and shall be recognized''; 
                and
                    (C) by striking ``must be recognized'' each place 
                it appears and inserting ``is the controlling order'';
            (10) in subsection (h), as redesignated by paragraph (6) of 
        this section, by striking ``subsections (e) and (f)'' and 
        inserting ``subsections (f) and (g)'';
            (11) in subsection (i), as redesignated by paragraph (6) of 
        this section--
                    (A) in paragraph (1), by inserting ``or collect 
                arrears and interest due on a child support order'' 
                after ``enforce a child support order'';
                    (B) by striking paragraph (2) and inserting the 
                following:
            ``(2) Law of state of issuance of order.--A tribunal shall 
        apply the law of the State of the tribunal that issued a child 
        support order registered in the State of the tribunal with 
        regard to--
                    ``(A) the nature, extent, amount, and duration of 
                current payments under the child support order;
                    ``(B) the computation and payment of arrears and 
                accrual of interest on arrears under the child support 
                order; and
                    ``(C) the existence and satisfaction of other 
                obligations under the child support order.'';
                    (C) in paragraph (3), by striking ``child support 
                order, a'' and inserting ``child support order 
                registered in the State of a tribunal, the''; and
                    (D) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(4) Prospective application of law.--After a tribunal 
        determines which is the controlling order and issues an order 
        consolidating arrears, if any, a tribunal shall apply the law 
        of the State of the tribunal that issued the controlling order 
        (including the law of the State relating to interest on 
        arrears)--
                    ``(A) for support paid after the date of the order 
                consolidating arrears; and
                    ``(B) relating to consolidated arrears.''; and
            (12) by adding at the end the following:
    ``(j) Registration for Modification.--
            ``(1) In general.--A tribunal may modify a child support 
        order issued in another State which has been registered in the 
        State of the tribunal if, after notice and hearing, the 
        tribunal finds--
                    ``(A) that--
                            ``(i) no individual contestant or child 
                        resides in the State of the tribunal issuing 
                        the child support order;
                            ``(ii) the individual contestant seeking to 
                        modify, or to modify and enforce, a child 
                        support order issued in another State does not 
                        reside in the State in which the registering 
                        tribunal is located; and
                            ``(iii) the tribunal of the State in which 
                        the child support order has been registered has 
                        personal jurisdiction of the parties not 
                        seeking to modify, or modify and enforce, the 
                        child support order;
                    ``(B) that the State in which the child support 
                order has been registered--
                            ``(i)(I) is the residence of the child; or
                            ``(II) has personal jurisdiction of an 
                        individual contestant; and
                            ``(ii) each individual contestant has filed 
                        a consent in a record with the issuing tribunal 
                        for a tribunal in the registering State to 
                        modify the support order and assume continuing, 
                        exclusive jurisdiction; or
                    ``(C) that all of the individual contestants reside 
                in the State in which the registering tribunal is 
                located and the child does not reside in the issuing 
                State.
            ``(2) Limitations.--A tribunal may not modify any term of a 
        child support order that may not be modified under the law of 
        the issuing State, including the duration of the obligation of 
        support. If 2 or more tribunals have issued child support 
        orders for the same obligor and same child, the law of the 
        State of the tribunal issuing the controlling order, as 
        determined under subsection (g), establishes the terms of the 
        child support order which are not modifiable.
            ``(3) Proceeding to modify.--In a proceeding to modify a 
        child support order, the law of the State of the tribunal that 
        issued the initial controlling order, as determined under 
        subsection (g), governs the duration of the obligation of 
        support. The obligor's fulfillment of the duty of support 
        established by that controlling order precludes a tribunal of 
        another State from imposing a further obligation of child 
        support on the obligor.
            ``(4) Parties residing outside the united states.--
        Notwithstanding paragraph (1), a tribunal in the issuing State 
        retains jurisdiction to modify an order issued in that State 
        if--
                    ``(A) 1 party resides in another State; and
                    ``(B) the other party resides outside of the United 
                States.''.

SEC. 102. RELIEF FROM PASSPORT SANCTIONS FOR CERTAIN INDIVIDUALS.

    Section 452(k) of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 652(k)) is 
amended--
            (1) in paragraph (2), by striking ``The Secretary of 
        State'' and inserting ``Subject to paragraph (3), the Secretary 
        of State'';
            (2) by redesignating paragraph (3) as paragraph (4); and
            (3) by inserting after paragraph (2) the following new 
        paragraph:
    ``(3)(A) Notwithstanding paragraph (2), the Secretary of State may 
issue a passport to an individual with respect to whom the Secretary 
has transmitted certification under paragraph (1) if--
            ``(i) the individual submits an application for relief to 
        the Secretary of State, in such form and manner as the 
        Secretary of State shall require; and
            ``(ii) the Secretary of State certifies that the 
        application includes evidence that the individual--
                    ``(I) has an annual income of less than $100,000;
                    ``(II) is not incurring any new child support 
                obligations, but only owes arrearages;
                    ``(III) does not owe arrearages of child support 
                for a child who is less than 18 years old;
                    ``(IV) has been making child support payments 
                consistently and in good faith for each of the most 
                recently preceding 12 months; and
                    ``(V) has a current offer to work outside of the 
                United States, an offer to interview for work outside 
                of the United States, a professional history of working 
                outside of the United States, a job that requires 
                travel outside of the United States, or is enrolled in 
                a professional training program that requires travel 
                outside of the United States.
    ``(B) The Secretary of State shall revoke a passport issued to an 
individual under subparagraph (A) upon a determination that the 
individual has failed to make child support payments consistently and 
in good faith for more than 6 months.
    ``(C) The Secretary of State shall report the issuance of a 
passport under this paragraph to the Secretary.
    ``(D) The Secretary shall report the issuance of a passport under 
this paragraph to the State agency that certified in accordance with 
section 454(31) that the individual to whom the passport is issued owed 
child support arrearages in an amount exceeding $2,500.''.

SEC. 103. CHILD SUPPORT ENFORCEMENT PROGRAMS FOR INDIAN TRIBES.

    (a) Tribal Access to the Federal Parent Locator Service.--Section 
453(c)(1) of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 653(c)(1)) is amended 
by inserting ``or Indian tribe or tribal organization (as defined in 
subsections (e) and (l) of section 4 of the Indian Self-Determination 
and Education Assistance Act (25 U.S.C. 450b)),'' after ``any State''.
    (b) Waiver Authority for Indian Tribes or Tribal Organizations 
Operating Child Support Enforcement Programs.--Section 1115(b) of the 
Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1315(b)) is amended--
            (1) by redesignating paragraphs (1) through (3) as 
        subparagraphs (A) through (C), respectively, and realigning the 
        left margin of subparagraph (C) so as to align with 
        subparagraphs (A) and (B) (as so redesignated);
            (2) by inserting ``(1)'' after ``(b)''; and
            (3) by adding at the end the following:
    ``(2) An Indian tribe or tribal organization operating a program 
under section 455(f) shall be considered a State for purposes of 
authority to conduct an experimental, pilot, or demonstration project 
under subsection (a) to assist in promoting the objectives of part D of 
title IV and receiving payments under the second sentence of that 
subsection. The Secretary may waive compliance with any requirements of 
section 455(f) or regulations promulgated under that section to the 
extent and for the period the Secretary finds necessary for an Indian 
tribe or tribal organization to carry out such project. Costs of the 
project which would not otherwise be included as expenditures of a 
program operating under section 455(f) and which are not included as 
part of the costs of projects under section 1110, shall, to the extent 
and for the period prescribed by the Secretary, be regarded as 
expenditures under a tribal plan or plans approved under such section, 
or for the administration of such tribal plan or plans, as may be 
appropriate. An Indian tribe or tribal organization applying for or 
receiving start-up program development funding pursuant to section 
309.16 of title 45, Code of Federal Regulations, shall not be 
considered to be an Indian tribe or tribal organization operating a 
program under section 455(f) for purposes of this paragraph.''.

SEC. 104. PARENTING TIME ARRANGEMENTS.

    (a) State Plan Amendments.--Section 454 of the Social Security Act 
(42 U.S.C. 654), as amended by section 101(c), is further amended--
            (1) in paragraph (4)(A), in the matter preceding clause 
        (i), by inserting ``, establishment of voluntary parenting time 
        arrangements,'' after ``establishment of paternity'';
            (2) in paragraph (9)--
                    (A) in subparagraph (D), by striking ``; and'' and 
                inserting a semicolon;
                    (B) in subparagraph (E), by inserting ``and'' after 
                the semicolon; and
                    (C) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(F) in establishing a voluntary parenting time 
        arrangement at the time that a support order (as defined in 
        section 453(p)) is initially issued under this part pursuant to 
        the requirements, standards, and procedures described in 
        paragraph (35);'';
            (3) in paragraph (13), by inserting ``establishing 
        voluntary parenting time arrangements,'' after ``obtaining 
        support orders,'';
            (4) in paragraph (15)--
                    (A) in subparagraph (A), by striking ``and'' after 
                the semicolon;
                    (B) in subparagraph (B), by inserting ``and'' after 
                the semicolon; and
                    (C) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(C) a process for including in the annual reviews and 
        reports required under subparagraph (A) information, in such 
        form and manner as the Secretary shall require, regarding the 
        policies and practices implemented by the State or which the 
        State plans to implement to facilitate access to and visitation 
        of children by noncustodial parents;'';
            (5) in paragraph (26)(A), by inserting ``to establish 
        voluntary parenting time arrangements,'' after ``to establish 
        paternity,'';
            (6) in paragraph (33), by striking ``and'' after the 
        semicolon;
            (7) in paragraph (34), by striking the period at the end 
        and inserting ``; and''; and
            (8) by inserting after paragraph (34) the following:
    ``(35) provide that the State shall implement procedures for the 
establishment of a voluntary parenting time arrangement at the time 
that a support order (as defined in section 453(p)) is initially issued 
under this part for parents who are not subject to a divorce or 
dissolution decree and for whom the voluntary parenting time 
arrangement is not contested, in accordance with such requirements and 
standards as the Secretary determines necessary and that include 
exceptions for family or domestic violence, dating violence, sexual 
assault, and stalking.''.
    (b) Secretarial Guidance.--The Secretary shall issue guidance for 
States for the establishment of voluntary parenting time arrangements. 
The guidance shall provide that in establishing such arrangements, a 
State shall establish procedures to ensure--
            (1) the informed and voluntary participation of both 
        parents in the establishment of a voluntary parenting time 
        arrangement that is free from coercion and threats of 
        recrimination;
            (2) each parent's informed consent to the terms and legal 
        implications of any parenting time plan established under a 
        voluntary parenting time arrangement; and
            (3) that all voluntary parenting time arrangements comply 
        with State law.

SEC. 105. EFFICIENT USE OF THE NATIONAL DIRECTORY OF NEW HIRES DATABASE 
              FOR FEDERALLY SPONSORED RESEARCH ASSESSING THE 
              EFFECTIVENESS OF FEDERAL POLICIES AND PROGRAMS IN 
              ACHIEVING POSITIVE LABOR MARKET OUTCOMES.

    Section 453 (42 U.S.C. 653) is amended--
            (1) in subsection (i)(2)(A), by striking ``24'' and 
        inserting ``48''; and
            (2) in subsection (j), by striking paragraph (5) and 
        inserting the following:
            ``(5) Research.--
                    ``(A) In general.--Subject to subparagraph (B) of 
                this paragraph, the Secretary may provide access to 
                data in each component of the Federal Parent Locator 
                Service maintained under this section and to 
                information reported by employers pursuant to section 
                453A(b), for--
                            ``(i) research undertaken by a State or 
                        Federal agency (including through grant or 
                        contract) for purposes found by the Secretary 
                        to be likely to contribute to achieving the 
                        purposes of part A or this part; or
                            ``(ii) an evaluation or statistical 
                        analysis undertaken to assess the effectiveness 
                        of a Federal program in achieving positive 
                        labor market outcomes (including through grant 
                        or contract), by--
                                    ``(I) the Department of Health and 
                                Human Services;
                                    ``(II) the Social Security 
                                Administration;
                                    ``(III) the Department of Labor;
                                    ``(IV) the Department of Education;
                                    ``(V) the Department of Housing and 
                                Urban Development;
                                    ``(VI) the Department of Justice;
                                    ``(VII) the Department of Veterans 
                                Affairs;
                                    ``(VIII) the Bureau of the Census;
                                    ``(IX) the Department of 
                                Agriculture; or
                                    ``(X) the National Science 
                                Foundation.
                    ``(B) Personal identifiers.--Data or information 
                provided under this paragraph may include a personal 
                identifier only if, in addition to meeting the 
                requirements of subsections (l) and (m)--
                            ``(i) the State or Federal agency 
                        conducting the research described in 
                        subparagraph (A)(i), or the Federal department 
                        or agency undertaking the evaluation or 
                        statistical analysis described in subparagraph 
                        (A)(ii), as applicable, enters into an 
                        agreement with the Secretary regarding the 
                        security and use of the data or information;
                            ``(ii) the agreement includes such 
                        restrictions or conditions with respect to the 
                        use, safeguarding, disclosure, or redisclosure 
                        of the data or information (including by 
                        contractors or grantees) as the Secretary deems 
                        appropriate;
                            ``(iii) the data or information is used 
                        exclusively for the purposes defined in the 
                        agreement; and
                            ``(iv) the Secretary determines that the 
                        provision of data or information under this 
                        paragraph is the minimum amount needed to 
                        conduct the research, evaluation, or 
                        statistical analysis, as applicable, and will 
                        not interfere with the effective operation of 
                        the program under this part.
                    ``(C) Penalties for unauthorized disclosure of 
                data.--Any individual who willfully discloses a 
                personal identifier (such as a name or social security 
                number) provided under this paragraph, in any manner to 
                an entity not entitled to receive the data or 
                information, shall be fined under title 18, United 
                States Code, imprisoned not more than 5 years, or 
                both.''.

             TITLE II--CHILD SUPPORT ENFORCEMENT TASK FORCE

SEC. 201. CHILD SUPPORT ENFORCEMENT TASK FORCE.

    (a) Establishment.--There is established in the executive branch a 
task force to be known as the Child Support Enforcement Task Force 
(referred to in this section as the ``Task Force'').
    (b) Membership.--
            (1) Composition.--The Task Force shall be composed of 15 
        members consisting of--
                    (A) the Assistant Secretary of the Administration 
                for Children and Families of the Department of Health 
                and Human Services;
                    (B) 5 members appointed by the Senate, of which--
                            (i) 1 shall be appointed by the Majority 
                        Leader of the Senate;
                            (ii) 1 shall be appointed by the Minority 
                        Leader of the Senate;
                            (iii) 1 shall be appointed by the Chairman 
                        of the Committee on Finance of the Senate;
                            (iv) 1 shall be appointed by the Ranking 
                        Member of the Committee on Finance of the 
                        Senate; and
                            (v) 1 shall be jointly appointed by the 
                        Chairman and Ranking Member of the Committee on 
                        Finance of the Senate;
                    (C) 5 members appointed by the House of 
                Representatives, of which--
                            (i) 1 shall be appointed by the Speaker of 
                        the House of Representatives;
                            (ii) 1 shall be appointed by the Minority 
                        Leader of the House of Representatives;
                            (iii) 1 shall be appointed by the Chairman 
                        of the Committee on Ways and Means of the House 
                        of Representatives;
                            (iv) 1 shall be appointed by the Ranking 
                        Member of the Committee on Ways and Means of 
                        the House of Representatives; and
                            (v) 1 shall be jointly appointed by the 
                        Chairman and Ranking Member of the Committee on 
                        Ways and Means of the House of Representatives; 
                        and
                    (D) 4 members appointed by the President.
            (2) Date.--The appointments of the members of the Task 
        Force shall be made not later than 6 months after the date of 
        enactment of this Act.
            (3) Expertise.--The membership of the Task Force shall 
        consist of individuals who are knowledgeable on issues 
        regarding child support and related activities.
            (4) Period of appointment; vacancies.--Members shall be 
        appointed for the life of the Task Force. A vacancy in the Task 
        Force shall be filled in the manner in which the original 
        appointment was made and shall not affect the powers or duties 
        of the Task Force.
            (5) Quorum.--
                    (A) In general.--A majority of the Task Force shall 
                constitute a quorum, but a lesser number of members may 
                hold hearings.
                    (B) Report.--The Task Force may not submit the 
                report required under subsection (c) until all of the 
                members have been appointed.
            (6) Meetings.--
                    (A) Initial meeting.--Not later than 30 days after 
                the Task Force has a majority, the Task Force shall 
                hold its first meeting.
                    (B) Chairperson and vice chairperson.--During the 
                first meeting of the Task Force, the Task Force shall 
                select a Chairperson and Vice Chairperson from among 
                the members appointed as of the date of the meeting.
                    (C) Other meetings.--Following the first meeting of 
                the Task Force, any subsequent meetings shall be at the 
                call of the Chairperson or Vice Chairperson.
                    (D) Public meetings.--In addition to any other 
                meetings held by the Task Force, the Task Force shall 
                hold at least 3 meetings that are open to the public 
                and preceded by timely public notice in the Federal 
                Register of the time, place, and subject of the 
                meeting. At least one public meeting of the Task Force 
                shall focus on issues relevant to family courts or 
                other State or local courts with responsibility for 
                conducting or supervising proceedings relating to child 
                support enforcement, child welfare, or social services 
                for children and their families. At the public meetings 
                of the Task Force, subject to such requirements and 
                limitations as are determined appropriate by the 
                Chairperson, appearances may be made and oral and 
                written statements given by members of the public and 
                the Task Force shall engage, at a minimum, with the 
                following groups:
                            (i) Administrators of State child support 
                        programs.
                            (ii) Judges who preside over family courts 
                        or other State or local courts with 
                        responsibility for conducting or supervising 
                        proceedings relating to child support 
                        enforcement, child welfare, or social services 
                        for children and their families, and 
                        organizations that represent such judges.
                            (iii) Custodial parents and organizations 
                        that represent such parents.
                            (iv) Noncustodial parents and organizations 
                        that represent such parents.
                            (v) Organizations that represent fiduciary 
                        entities that are affected by child support 
                        enforcement policies.
            (7) Compensation.--Members of the Task Force--
                    (A) shall not receive compensation for service on 
                the Task Force; and
                    (B) shall be allowed travel expenses, including per 
                diem in lieu of subsistence, at rates authorized for 
                employees of agencies under subchapter I of chapter 57 
                of title 5, United States Code, while away from their 
                homes or regular places of business in the performance 
                of service for the Task Force.
    (c) Report to Congress.--Not later than January 1, 2016, the Task 
Force shall prepare and submit a report to Congress that contains the 
Task Force's findings and recommendations for improvements in child 
support enforcement. The report shall include the following:
            (1) An evaluation of the effectiveness of existing child 
        support enforcement programs and collection practices employed 
        by State agencies administering programs under part D of title 
        IV of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 651 et seq.) and an 
        analysis of the extent to which such practices result in any 
        unintended consequences or performance issues associated with 
        such programs and practices.
            (2) Recommendations for methods to enhance the 
        effectiveness of child support enforcement programs and 
        collection practices.
            (3) An analysis of the feasibility of the establishment of 
        a centralized lien registry by each State to contain all liens 
        placed against real and personal property for overdue child 
        support that would ensure access to and sharing of registry 
        data among all necessary entities and individuals prior to any 
        sale or distribution of property or funds.
            (4) A compilation of State recovery and distribution 
        policies.
            (5) Recommendations for methods to foster engagement by 
        fathers in their children's lives through consideration of 
        parental time and visitation with children.
            (6) An analysis of the role for alternative dispute 
        resolution in making child support determinations.
            (7) Identification of best practices for--
                    (A) determining which services and support programs 
                available to custodial and noncustodial parents are 
                non-duplicative, evidenced-based, and produce quality 
                outcomes, and connecting custodial and noncustodial 
                parents to those services and support programs;
                    (B) providing employment support, job training, and 
                job placement for custodial and noncustodial parents; 
                and
                    (C) establishing services, supports, and child 
                support payment tracking for noncustodial parents, 
                including options for the prevention of, and 
                intervention on, uncollectible arrearages, such as 
                retroactive obligations and Medicaid birthing costs.
            (8) Recommendations for methods for States to use to 
        collect child support payments from individuals who owe 
        excessive arrearages as determined under section 454(31) of the 
        Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 654(31)).
            (9) Recommendations for such legislative and administrative 
        actions as the Task Force determines appropriate for 
        improvement in child support enforcement.
    (d) Powers of the Task Force.--
            (1) Hearings.--
                    (A) In general.--The Task Force may hold such 
                hearings, sit, and act at such times and places, take 
                such testimony, and receive such evidence as the Task 
                Force considers advisable to carry out this section.
                    (B) Information from federal agencies.--The Task 
                Force may secure directly from any Federal agency such 
                information as the Task Force considers necessary to 
                carry out this section. Upon request of the 
                Chairperson, the head of such agency shall furnish such 
                information to the Task Force.
            (2) Rules.--For the purposes of carrying out its duties in 
        preparing the report required under subsection (c), the Task 
        Force may adopt such rules for its organization and procedures 
        as it determines appropriate.
            (3) Postal services.--The Task Force may use the United 
        States mails in the same manner and under the same conditions 
        as other agencies of the Federal Government.
            (4) Donations and volunteers.--The Task Force may accept, 
        use, and dispose of donations of money and property and may 
        accept such volunteer services of individuals as it determines 
        appropriate.
            (5) Personnel matters.--
                    (A) Staff.--The Chairperson may, without regard to 
                the civil service laws and regulations, appoint and 
                terminate an executive director and such other 
                additional employees as may be necessary to enable the 
                Task Force to perform its duties. The employment of an 
                executive director shall be subject to confirmation by 
                the Task Force.
                    (B) Compensation.--The Chairperson may fix the 
                compensation of the executive director and other 
                employees of the Task Force without regard to chapter 
                51 and subchapter III of chapter 53 of title 5, United 
                States Code, relating to classification of positions 
                and General Schedule pay rates, except that the rate of 
                pay for the executive director and other personnel may 
                not exceed the rate payable for level V of the 
                Executive Schedule under section 5316 of such title.
                    (C) Detail of government employees.--Any Federal 
                Government employee may be detailed to the Task Force 
                without reimbursement, and such detail shall be without 
                interruption or loss of civil service status, benefits, 
                or privilege.
                    (D) Temporary and intermittent services.--The 
                Chairperson may procure temporary and intermittent 
                services under section 3109(b) of title 5, United 
                States Code, at rates for individuals which do not 
                exceed the daily equivalent of the annual rate of basic 
                pay prescribed for level V of the Executive Schedule 
                under section 5316 of such title.
    (e) Termination.--The Task Force shall terminate 60 days after 
submission of the report required under subsection (c).
    (f) Funding.--
            (1) In general.--From the unobligated balance of funds made 
        available to carry out section 414 of the Social Security Act 
        (42 U.S.C. 614), $2,000,000 of such funds are hereby 
        transferred and made available to carry out this section. 
        Amounts transferred and made available to carry out this 
        section shall remain available through fiscal year 2016 and 
        shall not be subject to reduction under a sequestration order 
        issued under the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control 
        Act of 1985 (2 U.S.C. 900 et seq.).
            (2) Unobligated amounts.--Any amounts made available to 
        carry out this section that are unobligated on the date of the 
        termination of the Task Force under subsection (e) shall be 
        returned to the Treasury of the United States.
    (g) Administration.--
            (1) In general.--Upon the request of the Task Force, the 
        Secretary of Health and Human Services shall provide to the 
        Task Force, on a reimbursable basis, the administrative support 
        services necessary for the Task Force to carry out its 
        responsibilities under this Act. These administrative services 
        may include human resource management, budget, leasing, 
        accounting, and payroll services.
            (2) Travel expenses.--The members of the Task Force shall 
        be allowed travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of 
        subsistence, at rates authorized for employees of agencies 
        under subchapter I of chapter 57 of title 5, United States 
        Code, while away from their homes or regular places of business 
        in the performance of services for the Task Force.

                       TITLE III--EFFECTIVE DATES

SEC. 301. EFFECTIVE DATES.

    (a) In General.--Except as provided in subsection (b), this Act and 
the amendments made by this Act take effect on the date of enactment of 
this Act.
    (b) Exceptions.--
            (1) UIFSA state law requirements; parenting time 
        arrangements.--
                    (A) In general.--Subject to subparagraph (B), the 
                amendments made by sections 101(f) and 104(a) take 
                effect on October 1, 2014.
                    (B) Delay.--In the case of a State plan under part 
                D of title IV of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 651 
                et seq.) which the Secretary of Health and Human 
                Services determines requires State legislation or State 
                regulation in order for the plan to meet the additional 
                requirements imposed by the amendments made by sections 
                101(f) and 104(a), the State plan shall not be regarded 
                as failing to comply with the requirements of such 
                sections solely on the basis of its failure to meet 
                these additional requirements before the first day of 
                the first calendar quarter beginning after the close of 
                the first regular session of the State legislature that 
                begins after the date of enactment of this Act. For 
                purposes of the previous sentence, in the case of a 
                State that has a 2-year legislative session, each year 
                of the session is considered to be a separate regular 
                session of the State legislature.
            (2) Relief from passport sanctions; child support 
        enforcement programs for indian tribes.--The amendments made by 
        sections 102 and 103 shall take effect on the date that is 1 
        year after the date of enactment of this Act.

                      TITLE IV--BUDGETARY EFFECTS

SEC. 401. DETERMINATION OF BUDGETARY EFFECTS.

    The budgetary effects of this Act, for the purpose of complying 
with the Statutory Pay-As-You-Go Act of 2010, shall be determined by 
reference to the latest statement titled ``Budgetary Effects of PAYGO 
Legislation'' for this Act, submitted for printing in the Congressional 
Record by the Chairman of the Senate Budget Committee, provided that 
such statement has been submitted prior to the vote on passage.
                                 <all>
