
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 2422 Introduced in House (IH)]

113th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                H. R. 2422

To award a Congressional Gold Medal to Sally K. Ride in recognition of 
her exemplary service as an astronaut, physicist, and science education 
                               advocate.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                             June 18, 2013

  Mr. Peters of California (for himself, Ms. Eddie Bernice Johnson of 
 Texas, Ms. Wilson of Florida, Ms. McCollum, Mrs. Davis of California, 
Mr. Markey, Mr. Bera of California, Ms. Chu, Mr. Vargas, Mr. Hall, Ms. 
Jackson Lee, Ms. Bonamici, Mr. Nadler, Ms. Brownley of California, Ms. 
  Edwards, Mr. Swalwell of California, Mr. Cartwright, Ms. Hahn, Ms. 
  Bordallo, Mr. Pascrell, and Mr. Hastings of Florida) introduced the 
   following bill; which was referred to the Committee on Financial 
                                Services

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
To award a Congressional Gold Medal to Sally K. Ride in recognition of 
her exemplary service as an astronaut, physicist, and science education 
                               advocate.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Sally K. Ride Congressional Gold 
Medal Act of 2013''.

SEC. 2. FINDINGS.

    Congress finds the following:
            (1) On June 18, 1983, as a crew member of the Space Shuttle 
        Challenger STS-7 mission, Dr. Sally K. Ride became the first 
        American woman to travel into space.
            (2) Dr. Ride traveled to space on October 5, 1984, as a 
        crew member of STS 41-G.
            (3) Following the Space Shuttle Challenger disaster in 
        1986, Dr. Ride served as a member of the Presidential 
        commission investigating the accident.
            (4) Dr. Ride also served on the Space Shuttle Columbia 
        Accident Investigation Board in 2003, and was the only person 
        to have served on both the Space Shuttle Challenger and the 
        Space Shuttle Columbia accident investigation boards.
            (5) In addition to her service as a National Aeronautics 
        and Space Administration (NASA) astronaut, Dr. Ride was a Ph.D. 
        physicist and served as a professor of physics and the Director 
        of the California Space Institute at the University of 
        California, San Diego.
            (6) In 2001, to further her long-time passion of motivating 
        girls and young women to pursue careers in science, technology, 
        engineering, and mathematics, Dr. Ride founded Sally Ride 
        Science, a company that creates entertaining science programs 
        and publications for elementary and middle school students.
            (7) Dr. Ride served as a member of the President's Council 
        of Advisors on Science and Technology and the Space Studies 
        Board of the National Research Council.
            (8) The exemplary service of Dr. Ride as a NASA astronaut, 
        physicist, and science education advocate inspired a generation 
        of Americans.

SEC. 3. CONGRESSIONAL GOLD MEDAL.

    (a) Presentation Authorized.--The Speaker of the House of 
Representatives and the President pro tempore of the Senate shall make 
appropriate arrangements for the posthumous presentation, on behalf of 
the Congress, of a gold medal of appropriate design in commemoration of 
Sally K. Ride in recognition of her exemplary service as an astronaut, 
physicist, and science education advocate.
    (b) Design and Striking.--For the purpose of the presentation 
referred to in subsection (a), the Secretary of the Treasury shall 
strike a gold medal with suitable emblems, devices, and inscriptions to 
be determined by the Secretary.

SEC. 4. DUPLICATE MEDALS.

    The Secretary of the Treasury may strike and sell duplicates in 
bronze of the gold medal struck pursuant to section 3 under such 
regulations as the Secretary may prescribe, at a price sufficient to 
cover the cost thereof, including labor, materials, dies, use of 
machinery, and overhead expenses, and the cost of the gold medal.

SEC. 5. STATUS OF MEDALS.

    (a) National Medals.--The medals struck under this Act are national 
medals for purposes of chapter 51 of title 31, United States Code.
    (b) Numismatic Items.--For purposes of sections 5134 and 5136 of 
title 31, United States Code, all medals struck under this Act shall be 
considered to be numismatic items.

SEC. 6. AUTHORITY TO USE FUND AMOUNTS; PROCEEDS OF SALE.

    (a) Authorization To Use Fund Amounts.--There is authorized to be 
charged against the United States Mint Public Enterprise Fund, such 
amounts as may be necessary to pay for the cost of the medals struck 
pursuant to this Act.
    (b) Proceeds of Sale.--Amounts received from the sale of duplicate 
bronze medals under section 4 shall be deposited in the United States 
Mint Public Enterprise Fund.
                                 <all>
