
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 1709 Introduced in House (IH)]

113th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                H. R. 1709

To authorize the Attorney General to award grants to eligible entities 
  to prevent or alleviate community violence by providing education, 
mentoring, and counseling services to children, adolescents, teachers, 
   families, and community leaders on the principles and practice of 
                              nonviolence.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                             April 24, 2013

  Mr. Lewis introduced the following bill; which was referred to the 
                Committee on Education and the Workforce

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
To authorize the Attorney General to award grants to eligible entities 
  to prevent or alleviate community violence by providing education, 
mentoring, and counseling services to children, adolescents, teachers, 
   families, and community leaders on the principles and practice of 
                              nonviolence.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Securing American Families by 
Educating and Training Youth (SAFETY) Through Nonviolence Act of 
2013''.

SEC. 2. GRANTS TO EDUCATE AMERICANS ABOUT THE PRINCIPLES OF 
              NONVIOLENCE.

    (a) Grants.--The Attorney General may make grants to eligible 
entities to prevent or alleviate the effects of community violence by 
providing education, mentoring, and counseling to youth regarding the 
principles and application of nonviolence in conflict resolution.
    (b) Priority.--In awarding grants under this section, the Attorney 
General shall give priority to applicants that agree to use the grant 
in 1 or more eligible urban, rural, Tribal, and suburban communities 
that can certify--
            (1) an increase in community, especially youth violence; 
        and
            (2) lack the monetary or other resources to address 
        violence prevention.
    (c) Limitation.--The Attorney General may not make a grant to an 
eligible entity under this section unless the entity agrees to use not 
more than 40 percent of such grant for nonviolence-prevention education 
and program development.
    (d) Definitions.--In this section, the term ``eligible entity'' 
means a State or local government entity, educational institution, 
nonprofit, or faith-based organization.
    (e) Authorization of Appropriations.--To carry out this section, 
there is authorized to be appropriated $5,000,000 for each of the 
fiscal years from 2014 through 2019.
                                 <all>
