
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 1337 Introduced in House (IH)]

113th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                H. R. 1337

    To restrict funds for the Palestinian Authority, and for other 
                               purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                             March 21, 2013

Mr. DeSantis (for himself, Mr. Culberson, Mr. Sam Johnson of Texas, Mr. 
    Pitts, Mr. Flores, Mr. King of Iowa, and Mr. Franks of Arizona) 
 introduced the following bill; which was referred to the Committee on 
                            Foreign Affairs

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
    To restrict funds for the Palestinian Authority, and for other 
                               purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Palestinian Accountability Act''.

SEC. 2. PROHIBITION ON USE OF THE TERM ``PALESTINE'' IN UNITED STATES 
              GOVERNMENT DOCUMENTS.

    (a) In General.--No United States Government document may refer to 
the areas controlled by the Palestinian Authority as ``Palestine'' 
until the Secretary of State certifies to Congress that the Palestinian 
Authority, at a minimum--
            (1) does not manipulate or inappropriately influence in any 
        way the outcome of presidential or legislative elections in 
        areas controlled by the Palestinian Authority;
            (2) is advancing democratic ideals by actively promoting 
        human rights and ending government corruption through increased 
        efficiency and transparency in all government agencies and 
        initiatives;
            (3) regularly and strongly condemns terrorism;
            (4) has taken, and plans to continue to take, tangible 
        steps to disavow terrorism, dismantle terrorist 
        infrastructures, confiscate unauthorized weapons, arrest and 
        bring terrorists to justice, consolidate and control the 
        Palestinian security organizations, and end the incitement to 
        violence and hatred in the Palestinian media, educational 
        institutions, mosques, and other institutions;
            (5) has ceased to participate in any economic, educational, 
        cultural, or other boycott of Israel, its citizens, its 
        products, or its services;
            (6) has worked, and plans to continue to work, actively 
        with the Government of Israel to implement the steps and adhere 
        to the principles set out in the Performance-Based Roadmap to a 
        Permanent Two-State Solution to the Israeli-Palestinian 
        Conflict of 2003 (commonly referred to as the ``Roadmap to 
        Peace'') (or any successor to such) to bring security, peace, 
        and reconciliation between Israel and the Palestinians;
            (7) recognizes Israel's right to exist as a Jewish state 
        and conducts diplomatic relations with the State of Israel in 
        the same manner and to the same extent as it conducts 
        diplomatic relations with any other country; and
            (8) has either excluded Hamas from participating in a unity 
        government or, if not, has required Hamas to explicitly and 
        publicly support the requirements of paragraphs (1) to (7) of 
        this subsection.
    (b) Nonwaivability.--The prohibition under subsection (a) may not 
be waived for any purpose.

SEC. 3. PROHIBITION ON UNITED STATES FUNDS TO THE PALESTINIAN 
              AUTHORITY.

    (a) In General.--No funds available to any United States Government 
department or agency to carry out the provisions of chapter 4 of part 
II of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 for any fiscal year may be 
obligated or expended with respect to providing funds to the 
Palestinian Authority unless with respect to such fiscal year--
            (1) an independent audit of the budget of the Palestinian 
        Authority is conducted by a United States nongovernmental or 
        private organization or entity and the Secretary of State 
        submits such audit to Congress; and
            (2) the Secretary of State certifies to Congress that the 
        Palestinian Authority, at a minimum, meets the requirements of 
        paragraphs (1) to (8) of section 2(a) of this Act.
    (b) Effective Date.--This section takes effect on the date of the 
enactment of this Act and applies with respect to funds available for 
fiscal year 2013 and subsequent fiscal years.

SEC. 4. PROHIBITION ON UNITED STATES CONTRIBUTIONS TO THE UNITED 
              NATIONS.

    (a) In General.--Except as provided in section 5, no funds 
available to any United States Government department or agency for any 
fiscal year may be obligated or expended with respect to making 
contributions to the United Nations if a Palestinian state is 
recognized as a member state of the United Nations unless with respect 
to such fiscal year the Secretary of State certifies to Congress that 
the Palestinian Authority, at a minimum, meets the requirements of 
paragraphs (1) to (8) of section 2(a) of this Act.
    (b) Effective Date.--This section takes effect on the date of the 
enactment of this Act and applies with respect to funds available for 
fiscal year 2013 and subsequent fiscal years.

SEC. 5. PROHIBITION ON UNITED STATES CONTRIBUTIONS TO UNRWA.

    (a) In General.--No funds available to any United States Government 
department or agency for any fiscal year may be obligated or expended 
with respect to making contributions to the United Nations Relief and 
Works Agency for Palestine Refugees in the Near East (UNRWA) unless 
with respect to such fiscal year--
            (1) an independent audit of the budget of UNRWA is 
        conducted by a United States nongovernmental or private 
        organization or entity and the Secretary of State submits such 
        audit to Congress; and
            (2) the Secretary of State certifies to Congress that 
        UNRWA, at a minimum, meets the requirements applicable to the 
        Palestinian Authority under paragraphs (1) to (3), (5), and (7) 
        of section 2(a) of this Act, except that for purposes of 
        meeting the requirements of paragraph (1) of such section, the 
        term ``Palestinian Authority'' shall be deemed to be ``UNRWA''.
    (b) Effective Date.--This section takes effect on the date of the 
enactment of this Act and applies with respect to funds available for 
fiscal year 2013 and subsequent fiscal years.
                                 <all>
