
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[S. 2539 Engrossed in Senate (ES)]

113th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                S. 2539

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 AN ACT


 
To amend the Public Health Service Act to reauthorize certain programs 
       relating to traumatic brain injury and to trauma research.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Traumatic Brain Injury 
Reauthorization Act of 2014''.

SEC. 2. CDC PROGRAMS FOR PREVENTION AND SURVEILLANCE OF TRAUMATIC BRAIN 
              INJURY.

    (a) Prevention of Traumatic Brain Injury.--Section 393B(b)(3) of 
the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 280b-1c(b)(3)) is amended by 
striking ``2010, commonly referred to as Healthy People 2010'' and 
inserting ``2020, commonly referred to as Healthy People 2020''.
    (b) Authorization of Appropriations.--Section 394A of the Public 
Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 280b-3) is amended--
            (1) by striking the section heading and all that follows 
        through ``For the purpose'' and inserting the following:

``SEC. 394A. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.

    ``(a) In General.--For the purpose'';
            (2) by striking the second period; and
            (3) by adding at the end the following:
    ``(b) Traumatic Brain Injury.--To carry out sections 393B and 393C, 
there are authorized to be appropriated $6,564,000 for each of fiscal 
years 2015 through 2019.''.

SEC. 3. STATE GRANTS FOR PROJECTS REGARDING TRAUMATIC BRAIN INJURY.

    Section 1252 of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 300d-52) 
is amended--
            (1) in subsection (a), by striking ``, acting through the 
        Administrator of the Health Resources and Services 
        Administration,'';
            (2) in paragraphs (1)(A)(i) and (3)(E) of subsection (f), 
        by striking ``brain injury'' and inserting ``traumatic brain 
        injury'';
            (3) in subsection (h), by striking ``under this section, 
        and section 1253 including'' and inserting ``under this section 
        and section 1253, including''; and
            (4) in subsection (j), by striking ``such sums as may be 
        necessary for each of the fiscal years 2001 through 2005, and 
        such sums as may be necessary for each of the fiscal years 2009 
        through 2012'' and inserting ``$5,500,000 for each of the 
        fiscal years 2015 through 2019''.

SEC. 4. STATE GRANTS FOR PROTECTION AND ADVOCACY SERVICES.

    Section 1253 of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 300d-53) 
is amended--
            (1) in subsection (a), by striking ``, acting through the 
        Administrator of the Health Resources and Services 
        Administration (referred to in this section as the 
        `Administrator'),'';
            (2) in subsections (c), (d)(1), (e)(1), (e)(4), (g), (h), 
        and (j)(1), by striking ``Administrator'' each place it appears 
        and inserting ``Secretary'';
            (3) in subsection (h)--
                    (A) by striking the subsection heading and 
                inserting ``reporting'';
                    (B) by striking ``Each protection and advocacy 
                system'' and inserting the following:
            ``(1) Reports by systems.--Each protection and advocacy 
        system''; and
                    (C) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(2) Report by secretary.--Not later than 1 year after the 
        date of enactment of the Traumatic Brain Injury Reauthorization 
        Act of 2014, the Secretary shall prepare and submit to the 
        appropriate committees of Congress a report describing the 
        services and activities carried out under this section during 
        the period for which the report is being prepared.'';
            (4) in subsection (i), by striking ``The Administrator of 
        the Health Resources'' and all that follows through 
        ``regarding'' and inserting ``The Secretary shall facilitate 
        agreements to coordinate the collection of data by agencies 
        within the Department of Health and Human Services regarding'';
            (5) in subsection (k), by striking ``subtitle C of the 
        Developmental Disabilities Assistance and Bill of Rights Act of 
        2000'' and inserting ``subtitle C of title I of the 
        Developmental Disabilities Assistance and Bill of Rights Act of 
        2000 (42 U.S.C. 15041 et seq.)'';
            (6) in subsection (l), by striking ``$5,000,000 for fiscal 
        year 2001, and such sums as may be necessary for each the 
        fiscal years 2009 through 2012'' and inserting ``$3,100,000 for 
        each of the fiscal years 2015 through 2019''; and
            (7) in subsection (m)--
                    (A) in paragraph (1), by striking ``part C of the 
                Developmental Disabilities Assistance Bill of Rights 
                Act (42 U.S.C. 6042 et seq.)'' and inserting ``subtitle 
                C of title I of the Developmental Disabilities 
                Assistance and Bill of Rights Act of 2000 (42 U.S.C. 
                15041 et seq.)''; and
                    (B) in paragraph (2), by striking ``part C of the 
                Developmental Disabilities Assistance and Bill of 
                Rights Act (42 U.S.C. 6042 et seq.)'' and inserting 
                ``subtitle C of title I of the Developmental 
                Disabilities Assistance and Bill of Rights Act of 2000 
                (42 U.S.C. 15041 et seq.)''.

SEC. 5. TRAUMATIC BRAIN INJURY COORDINATION PLAN.

    (a) Development of Plan.--Not later than 18 months after the date 
of enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Health and Human Services 
shall develop a plan for improved coordination of Federal activities 
with respect to traumatic brain injury. Such plan shall--
            (1) review existing interagency coordination efforts with 
        respect to Federal activities related to traumatic brain 
        injury, including services for individuals with traumatic brain 
        injury;
            (2) identify areas for improved coordination between 
        relevant Federal agencies and programs, including agencies and 
        programs with a focus on serving individuals with disabilities;
            (3) identify each recommendation in the report required by 
        section 393C(b) of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 
        280b-1d(b)) that has been adopted and each such recommendation 
        that has not been adopted, and describe any planned activities 
        to address each such recommendation that has not been adopted; 
        and
            (4) incorporate, as appropriate, stakeholder feedback, 
        including feedback from individuals with traumatic brain injury 
        and their caregivers.
    (b) Submission to Congress.--The Secretary of Health and Human 
Services shall submit the plan developed under subsection (a) to the 
Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions of the Senate and 
the Committee on Energy and Commerce of the House of Representatives.

SEC. 6. REVIEW OF BRAIN INJURY MANAGEMENT IN CHILDREN.

    The Director of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, in 
consultation with the Director of the National Institutes of Health, 
shall conduct a review of the scientific evidence related to brain 
injury management in children, such as the restriction or prohibition 
of children from attending school or participating in athletic 
activities following a head injury, and identify ongoing and potential 
further opportunities for research. Not later than 2 years after the 
date of enactment of this Act, the Director of the Centers for Disease 
Control and Prevention shall submit to the Committee on Health, 
Education, Labor, and Pensions of the Senate and the Committee on 
Energy and Commerce of the House of Representatives the results of such 
review.

            Passed the Senate September 16, 2014.

            Attest:

                                                             Secretary.
113th CONGRESS

  2d Session

                                S. 2539

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 AN ACT

To amend the Public Health Service Act to reauthorize certain programs 
       relating to traumatic brain injury and to trauma research.
