
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[S. 1127 Introduced in Senate (IS)]

113th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                S. 1127

 To amend the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 regarding 
               school libraries, and for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                             June 10, 2013

 Mr. Reed (for himself, Mr. Cochran, Mrs. Murray, and Mr. Whitehouse) 
introduced the following bill; which was read twice and referred to the 
          Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
 To amend the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 regarding 
               school libraries, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Strengthening Kids' Interest in 
Learning and Libraries Act'' or the ``SKILLS Act''.

SEC. 2. REFERENCES.

    Except as otherwise expressly provided, wherever in this Act an 
amendment or repeal is expressed in terms of an amendment to, or repeal 
of, a section or other provision, the reference shall be considered to 
be made to a section or other provision of the Elementary and Secondary 
Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 6301 et seq.).

         TITLE I--IMPROVING EDUCATION THROUGH SCHOOL LIBRARIES

SEC. 101. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.

    Section 1002(b)(4) (20 U.S.C. 6302(b)(4)) is amended to read as 
follows:
            ``(4) Improving literacy through school libraries.--For the 
        purpose of carrying out subpart 4 of part B, there are 
        authorized to be appropriated such sums as may be necessary for 
        fiscal year 2014 and for each of the 5 succeeding fiscal 
        years.''.

SEC. 102. STATE PLANS.

    Section 1111(b)(8) (20 U.S.C. 6311(b)(8)) is amended--
            (1) in the matter preceding subparagraph (A), by inserting 
        ``or include'' after ``describe'';
            (2) in subparagraph (D), by striking ``and'' after the 
        semicolon;
            (3) by redesignating subparagraph (E) as subparagraph (F); 
        and
            (4) by inserting after subparagraph (D) the following:
                    ``(E) an assurance that the State educational 
                agency will assist local educational agencies in 
                developing effective school library programs to provide 
                students an opportunity to develop digital literacy 
                skills and the knowledge and skills described in the 
                challenging academic content standards adopted by the 
                State; and''.

SEC. 103. LOCAL EDUCATIONAL AGENCY PLANS.

    Section 1112(c)(1) (20 U.S.C. 6312(c)(1)) is amended--
            (1) in subparagraph (N), by striking ``and'' after the 
        semicolon;
            (2) in subparagraph (O), by striking the period and 
        inserting ``; and''; and
            (3) by adding at the end the following:
                    ``(P) assist each school served by the agency and 
                assisted under this part in developing effective school 
                library programs consistent with section 
                1111(b)(8)(E).''.

SEC. 104. SCHOOLWIDE PROGRAMS.

    Section 1114(b)(1)(D) (20 U.S.C. 6314(b)(1)(D)) is amended by 
inserting ``school librarians,'' after ``teachers,''.

SEC. 105. TARGETED ASSISTANCE PROGRAMS.

    Section 1115(c)(1)(F) (20 U.S.C. 6315(c)(1)(F)) is amended by 
inserting ``school librarians,'' after ``teachers,''.

SEC. 106. IMPROVING LITERACY AND COLLEGE AND CAREER READINESS THROUGH 
              EFFECTIVE SCHOOL LIBRARY PROGRAMS.

    Subpart 4 of part B of title I (20 U.S.C. 6383) is amended to read 
as follows:

   ``Subpart 4--Improving Literacy and College and Career Readiness 
               Through Effective School Library Programs

``SEC. 1251. IMPROVING LITERACY AND COLLEGE AND CAREER READINESS 
              THROUGH EFFECTIVE SCHOOL LIBRARY PROGRAMS.

    ``(a) Purpose.--The purpose of this subpart is to improve students' 
literacy skills and readiness for higher education and careers, by 
providing students with effective school library programs.
    ``(b) Definition of Eligible Entity.--In this section, the term 
`eligible entity' means--
            ``(1) a local educational agency in which 20 percent of the 
        students served by the local educational agency are from 
        families with incomes below the poverty line; or
            ``(2) a consortia of such local educational agencies.
    ``(c) Reservation.--From the funds appropriated under section 
1002(b)(4) for a fiscal year, the Secretary shall reserve--
            ``(1) one-half of 1 percent to award assistance under this 
        section to the Bureau of Indian Education to carry out 
        activities consistent with the purpose of this subpart; and
            ``(2) one-half of 1 percent to award assistance under this 
        section to the outlying areas according to their respective 
        needs for assistance under this subpart.
    ``(d) Grants to Local Educational Agencies.--
            ``(1) In general.--From amounts appropriated under section 
        1002(b)(4) and not reserved under subsection (c), the Secretary 
        shall award grants, on a competitive basis, to eligible 
        entities to enable such entities to carry out the authorized 
        activities described in subsection (e).
            ``(2) Sufficient size and scope.--The Secretary shall award 
        grants under this section of sufficient size and scope to allow 
        the eligible entities to carry out effective school library 
        programs for which the grant funds are provided.
            ``(3) Distribution.--The Secretary shall ensure that grants 
        under this section are equitably distributed among the 
        different geographic regions of the United States, and among 
        eligible entities serving urban and rural areas.
            ``(4) Duration.--The Secretary shall award grants under 
        this section for a period of 3 years.
            ``(5) Local applications.--An eligible entity desiring to 
        receive a grant under this section shall submit an application 
        to the Secretary at such time, in such manner, and containing 
        such information as the Secretary may require. Such application 
        shall include, for each school that the eligible entity 
        identifies as participating in a grant program under this 
        section, the following information:
                    ``(A) a needs assessment relating to the need for 
                literacy improvement at all grade levels and the need 
                for effective school library programs, based on the age 
                and condition of school library resources, including--
                            ``(i) book collections;
                            ``(ii) access to advanced technology;
                            ``(iii) the availability of well-trained, 
                        State certified or licensed school librarians; 
                        and
                            ``(iv) the current level of coordination 
                        and shared planning time among school 
                        librarians and classroom teachers;
                    ``(B) a description of which grade spans will be 
                served, and an assurance that funding will be 
                distributed to serve students in elementary, middle, 
                and high schools;
                    ``(C) how the eligible entity will extensively 
                involve school librarians, teachers, administrators, 
                and parents in the activities assisted under this 
                section, and the manner in which the eligible entity 
                will carry out the activities described in subsection 
                (e) using programs and materials that are grounded in 
                scientifically valid research;
                    ``(D) the manner in which the eligible entity will 
                effectively coordinate the funds and activities 
                provided under this section with Federal, State, and 
                local funds and activities under this subpart and other 
                literacy, library, technology, and professional 
                development funds and activities, including those 
                funded through the Institute of Museum and Library 
                Services; and
                    ``(E) the manner in which the eligible entity will 
                collect and analyze data on the quality and impact of 
                activities carried out under this section by schools 
                served by the eligible entity.
    ``(e) Local Activities.--Funds under this section may be used to 
develop and enhance effective school library programs, which may 
include activities to--
            ``(1) acquire up-to-date school library resources, 
        including books and reading materials that--
                    ``(A) are appropriate for students in all grade 
                levels to be served and for students with special 
                learning needs, including students who are limited 
                English proficient; and
                    ``(B) engage the interest of readers at all reading 
                levels;
            ``(2) acquire and use advanced technology, incorporated 
        into the curricula of the school, to develop and enhance the 
        digital literacy skills of students;
            ``(3) facilitate Internet links and other resource-sharing 
        networks among schools and school libraries, and public and 
        academic libraries, where possible;
            ``(4) provide--
                    ``(A) professional development in the acquisition 
                of digital literacy skills and literacy instruction 
                that is appropriate for all grades, including the 
                assessment of student literacy needs, the coordination 
                of reading and writing instruction across content 
                areas, and training in literacy strategies in all 
                content areas for school librarians; and
                    ``(B) activities that foster increased 
                collaboration among school librarians, teachers, and 
                administrators; and
            ``(5) provide students with access to school libraries 
        during nonschool hours, including the hours before and after 
        school, during weekends, and during summer vacation periods.
    ``(f) Supplement Not Supplant.--Funds made available under this 
section shall be used to supplement, and not supplant, other Federal, 
State, and local funds expended to carry out activities relating to 
library, technology, or professional development activities.
    ``(g) Accountability and Reporting.--Each eligible entity that 
receives funds under this section for a fiscal year shall prepare and 
submit a report to the Secretary regarding how the funding was used and 
the extent to which the availability of, the access to, and the use of, 
up-to-date school library resources in the elementary schools and 
secondary schools served by the eligible entity was increased.''.

    TITLE II--PREPARING, TRAINING, AND RECRUITING HIGHLY EFFECTIVE 
              TEACHERS, SCHOOL LIBRARIANS, AND PRINCIPALS

SEC. 201. TEACHER, SCHOOL LIBRARIAN, AND PRINCIPAL TRAINING AND 
              RECRUITING FUND.

    Title II (20 U.S.C. 6601 et seq.) is amended--
            (1) in the title heading, by striking ``HIGH QUALITY 
        TEACHERS AND PRINCIPALS'' and inserting ``HIGHLY EFFECTIVE 
        TEACHERS, SCHOOL LIBRARIANS, AND PRINCIPALS''; and
            (2) in the part heading for part A, by striking ``teacher 
        and principal'' and inserting ``teacher, school librarian, and 
        principal''.

SEC. 202. PURPOSE.

    Section 2101(1) (20 U.S.C. 6601(1)) is amended to read as follows:
            ``(1) increase student achievement through strategies such 
        as--
                    ``(A) improving teacher, school librarian, and 
                principal quality; and
                    ``(B) increasing the number of highly effective 
                teachers in the classroom, highly effective school 
                librarians in the library, and highly effective 
                principals and assistant principals in the school; 
                and''.

SEC. 203. STATE APPLICATIONS.

    Section 2112(b)(4) (20 U.S.C. 6612(b)(4)) is amended by inserting 
``, school librarians,'' before ``and principals''.

SEC. 204. STATE USE OF FUNDS.

    Section 2113(c) (20 U.S.C. 6613(c)) is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (4)--
                    (A) in the matter preceding subparagraph (A), by 
                striking ``principals,'' and inserting ``highly 
                effective school librarians, and highly qualified 
                principals and''; and
                    (B) in subparagraph (B), by striking ``, 
                principals,'' and inserting ``, highly effective school 
                librarians, and highly qualified principals''; and
            (2) in paragraph (6), by striking ``teachers and 
        principals'' each place the term appears and inserting 
        ``teachers, school librarians, and principals''.

SEC. 205. LOCAL USE OF FUNDS.

    Section 2123(a) (20 U.S.C. 6623(a)) is amended by inserting after 
paragraph (8) the following:
            ``(9)(A) Developing and implementing strategies to assist 
        in recruiting and retaining highly effective school librarians; 
        and
            ``(B) providing appropriate professional development for 
        school librarians, particularly related to skills necessary to 
        assist students to improve the students' academic achievement, 
        including digital literacy skills and preparation for higher 
        education and careers.''.

                     TITLE III--GENERAL PROVISIONS

SEC. 301. DEFINITIONS.

    Section 9101 (20 U.S.C. 7801) is amended--
            (1) by redesignating paragraphs (16), (17), and (18) 
        through (43) as paragraphs (17), (18), and (20) through (45), 
        respectively;
            (2) by inserting after paragraph (15) the following:
            ``(15) Digital literacy skills.--The term `digital literacy 
        skills' has the meaning given the term in section 202 of the 
        Museum and Library Services Act.''; and
            (3) by inserting after paragraph (18) (as redesignated by 
        paragraph (1)) the following:
            ``(19) Effective school library program.--The term 
        `effective school library program' means a school library 
        program that--
                    ``(A) is staffed by a State certified or licensed 
                school librarian;
                    ``(B) has up-to-date books, materials, equipment, 
                and technology (including broadband);
                    ``(C) includes regular collaboration between 
                classroom teachers and school librarians to assist with 
                development and implementation of the curriculum and 
                other school reform efforts; and
                    ``(D) supports the development of digital literacy 
                skills.''.

SEC. 302. CONFORMING AMENDMENTS.

    (a) Table of Contents.--The table of contents in section 2 of the 
Act is amended--
            (1) by striking the items relating to subpart 4 of part B 
        of title I and inserting the following:

   ``subpart 4--improving literacy and college and career readiness 
               through effective school library programs

``Sec. 1251. Improving literacy and college and career readiness 
                            through effective school library 
                            programs.'';
            (2) by striking the item relating to title II and inserting 
        the following:

   ``TITLE II--PREPARING, TRAINING, AND RECRUITING HIGHLY EFFECTIVE 
             TEACHERS, SCHOOL LIBRARIANS, AND PRINCIPALS'';

        and
            (3) by striking the item relating to part A of title II and 
        inserting the following:

    ``Part A--Teacher, School Librarian, and Principal Training and 
                          Recruiting Fund.''.

                                 <all>
