
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[S. 1934 Referred in House (RFH)]

113th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                S. 1934


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                           September 10, 2014

     Referred to the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 AN ACT


 
To direct the Administrator of General Services to convey the Clifford 
         P. Hansen Federal Courthouse to Teton County, Wyoming.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Clifford P. Hansen Federal 
Courthouse Conveyance Act''.

SEC. 2. DEFINITIONS.

    In this Act:
            (1) Administrator.--The term ``Administrator'' means the 
        Administrator of General Services.
            (2) County.--The term ``County'' means Teton County, 
        Wyoming.
            (3) Courthouse.--The term ``Courthouse'' means--
                    (A) the parcel of land located at 145 East Simpson 
                Street, Jackson, Wyoming; and
                    (B) the building located on the land described in 
                subparagraph (A), which is known as the ``Clifford P. 
                Hansen Federal Courthouse''.

SEC. 3. CONVEYANCE OF FEDERAL COURTHOUSE TO TETON COUNTY, WYOMING.

    (a) In General.--Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the 
Administrator shall offer to convey to the County all right, title, and 
interest of the United States in and to the Courthouse.
    (b) Consideration.--In exchange for the conveyance of the 
Courthouse to the County under this Act, the Administrator shall 
require the County to pay to the Administrator--
            (1) nominal consideration for the parcel of land described 
        in section 2(3)(A); and
            (2) subject to subsection (c), consideration in an amount 
        equal to the fair market value of the building described in 
        section 2(3)(B), as determined based on an appraisal of the 
        building that is acceptable to the Administrator.
    (c) Credits.--In lieu of all or a portion of the amount of 
consideration for the building described in section 2(3)(B), the 
Administrator may accept as consideration for the conveyance of the 
building under subsection (b)(2) any credits or waivers against lease 
payments, amounts expended by the County under facility maintenance 
agreements, or other charges for the continued occupancy or use by the 
Federal Government of the building.
    (d) Restrictions on Use.--The deed for the conveyance of the 
Courthouse to the County under this Act shall include a covenant that 
provides that the Courthouse will be used for public use purposes.
    (e) Costs of Conveyance.--The County shall be responsible for 
paying--
            (1) the costs of an appraisal conducted under subsection 
        (b)(2); and
            (2) any other costs relating to the conveyance of the 
        Courthouse under this Act.
    (f) Proceeds.--
            (1) Deposit.--Any net proceeds received by the 
        Administrator as a result of the conveyance under this Act, as 
        applicable, shall be paid into the Federal Buildings Fund 
        established under section 592 of title 40, United States Code.
            (2) Expenditure.--Amounts paid into the Federal Buildings 
        Fund under paragraph (1) shall be available to the 
        Administrator, in amounts specified in appropriations Acts, for 
        expenditure for any lawful purpose consistent with existing 
        authorities granted to the Administrator.
    (g) Additional Terms and Conditions.--The Administrator may 
establish such additional terms and conditions with respect to the 
conveyance under this Act as the Administrator considers to be 
appropriate to protect the interests of the United States.

            Passed the Senate September 9, 2014.

            Attest:

                                                NANCY ERICKSON,

                                                             Secretary.
