
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 414 Introduced in House (IH)]

113th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                H. R. 414

 To provide for the continued lease or eventual conveyance of certain 
    Federal land within the boundaries of Fort Wainwright Military 
                   Reservation in Fairbanks, Alaska.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                            January 23, 2013

 Mr. Young of Alaska introduced the following bill; which was referred 
to the Committee on Natural Resources, and in addition to the Committee 
 on Armed Services, for a period to be subsequently determined by the 
  Speaker, in each case for consideration of such provisions as fall 
           within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
 To provide for the continued lease or eventual conveyance of certain 
    Federal land within the boundaries of Fort Wainwright Military 
                   Reservation in Fairbanks, Alaska.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. LAND LEASE AND CONVEYANCE, FORT WAINWRIGHT MILITARY 
              RESERVATION, FAIRBANKS, ALASKA.

    (a) Covered Land Defined.--In this section, the term ``covered 
land'' means a parcel of Federal land consisting of approximately 76 
acres in Fairbanks, Alaska, that--
            (1) is under the jurisdiction of the Bureau of Land 
        Management;
            (2) was withdrawn for military use pursuant to Executive 
        Order 7596 of 1937 and is administered by the Secretary of the 
        Army as part of Fort Wainwright Military Reservation; and
            (3) contains a 400-home rental housing community pursuant 
        to a Department of the Army lease (Lease No. DACA 85-1-86-71) 
        dated June 26, 1986.
    (b) Authority To Extend Current Lease.--
            (1) Authority to extend; term.--The Secretary of the Army 
        may offer to extend the lease described in subsection (a)(3) 
        for one or more periods of 15 years.
            (2) Notice of exercise of discretion to extend.--If the 
        Secretary of the Army intends to offer any extension of the 
        lease, as authorized by paragraph (1), the Secretary shall 
        provide written notice of the offer to the current lessee and 
        the Secretary of the Interior not later than 36 months before 
        the date of the expiration of the lease.
    (c) Conveyance Option.--If the lease described in subsection (a)(3) 
is not extended under subsection (b), then upon the expiration of the 
lease, the Secretary of the Army, with the concurrence of the Secretary 
of the Interior, shall use the authority provided by section 2878 of 
title 10, United States Code, to convey all right, title, and interest 
of the United States in and to the covered land.
    (d) National Security Waiver.--The Secretary of Defense may waive 
the conveyance requirement under subsection (c) if the Secretary of 
Defense determines that retention and military use of the covered land 
are in the national security interests of the United States. The waiver 
shall not take effect until the end of the 90-day period beginning on 
the date on which the Secretary of Defense notifies the Secretary of 
the Interior and Congress of the need for the waiver.
    (e) Appraisal Required.--In the event of the conveyance of the 
covered land under subsection (c), the Secretary of the Army shall 
require an appraisal of the land, which shall be performed by an 
independent appraiser in accordance with the ``Uniform Appraisal 
Standards for Federal Land Acquisitions'' and the ``Uniform Standards 
of Professional Appraisal Practice''.
    (f) Consideration.--As consideration for the conveyance of the 
covered land under subsection (c), the purchaser shall pay to the 
Secretary of the Army an amount equal to the appraised value of the 
covered land, as determined under subsection (e).
    (g) Costs of Conveyance.--All costs of the conveyance under 
subsection (c), including appraisal costs, shall be paid by the 
purchaser.
    (h) Revocation of Withdrawal Order.--In the event the covered land 
is conveyed under subsection (c), Executive Order 7596 of 1937 is 
revoked to the extent necessary to permit conveyance of the land.
                                 <all>
