
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H. Res. 213 Introduced in House (IH)]

113th CONGRESS
  1st Session
H. RES. 213

 Establishing the Special Committee on Sexual Assault and Abuse in the 
Armed Forces to conduct oversight, ensure accountability, and report on 
    the activities of the Department of Defense to prevent, reduce, 
 prosecute, and provide victims' services for cases of sexual assault 
                     and abuse in the Armed Forces.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                              May 14, 2013

   Ms. McCollum (for herself, Ms. Speier, Ms. Kaptur, Ms. Wilson of 
  Florida, Mr. Ryan of Ohio, Ms. Lee of California, Mr. Rangel, Mrs. 
 Napolitano, Ms. Jackson Lee, and Ms. Sinema) submitted the following 
        resolution; which was referred to the Committee on Rules

_______________________________________________________________________

                               RESOLUTION


 
 Establishing the Special Committee on Sexual Assault and Abuse in the 
Armed Forces to conduct oversight, ensure accountability, and report on 
    the activities of the Department of Defense to prevent, reduce, 
 prosecute, and provide victims' services for cases of sexual assault 
                     and abuse in the Armed Forces.

    Resolved,

SECTION 1. ESTABLISHMENT.

    There is hereby established the Special Committee on Sexual Assault 
and Abuse in the Armed Forces (hereinafter referred to as the ``Special 
Committee'') to conduct oversight, ensure accountability, and report on 
the activities of the Department of Defense to prevent, reduce, 
prosecute, and provide victims' services for cases of sexual assault 
and abuse in the Armed Forces.

SEC. 2. COMPOSITION.

    (a) Membership.--The Special Committee shall be composed of 19 
members as follows:
            (1) Six members appointed by the Speaker.
            (2) Five members appointed by the Minority Leader.
            (3) The chair and ranking minority member of the Committee 
        on Armed Services (or a designee from among the members of that 
        committee).
            (4) The chair and ranking minority member of the Committee 
        on Appropriations (or a designee from among the members of that 
        committee).
            (5) The chair and ranking minority member of the Committee 
        on the Judiciary (or a designee from among the members of that 
        committee).
            (6) The chair and ranking minority member of the Committee 
        on Oversight and Government Reform (or a designee from among 
        the members of that committee).
If the chair or ranking minority member of any such committee declines 
to serve on the Special Committee, then the Speaker (in the case of a 
chair), or the Speaker after consultation with the minority leader (in 
the case of a ranking minority member), shall designate the member or 
members from that committee to serve on the Special Committee.
    (b) Designation of Chair and Ranking Minority Member.--The Speaker 
shall designate one member of the Special Committee to serve as its 
chair and the minority leader shall designate one member of the Special 
Committee to serve as its ranking minority member.

SEC. 3. JURISDICTION; REPORT.

    (a) Investigations.--The Special Committee shall have jurisdiction 
and oversight responsibility to conduct investigations into issues 
related to sexual assault and abuse in the Department of Defense, 
including the following:
            (1) Prevention.
            (2) Reported and unreported incidents of sexual assault and 
        abuse perpetrated by members of the Armed Forces and employees 
        of the Department of Defense.
            (3) Prosecution.
            (4) Victim services and care.
            (5) All other related issues.
    (b) Report.--Not later than 120 days after its initial meeting, the 
Special Committee shall submit to the House a report on its 
investigations under this section.

SEC. 4. POWERS AND PROCEDURES.

    Rule XI of the Rules of the House of Representatives shall apply 
with respect to the Special Committee.

SEC. 5. STAFF; FUNDING.

    (a) Staff.--(1) To the extent practicable, the Special Committee 
shall utilize the services of staff of employing entities of the House. 
At the request of the chair in consultation with the ranking minority 
member, staff of employing entities of the House may be detailed to the 
Special Committee to carry out this resolution, and shall be deemed to 
be staff of the Special Committee.
    (2) The chair, upon consultation with the ranking minority member, 
may employ and fix the compensation of such staff as the chair 
considers necessary to carry out this resolution.
    (b) Funding.--There are authorized to be appropriated from the 
applicable accounts of the House such sums as may be necessary to carry 
out this resolution. Payments for the expenses of the Special Committee 
shall be made on vouchers signed by the chair and approved in the 
manner directed by the Committee on House Administration. Amounts made 
available under this subsection shall be expended in accordance with 
regulations prescribed by the Committee on House Administration.

SEC. 6. TERMINATION; DISPOSITION OF RECORDS.

    (a) Termination.--The Special Committee shall terminate on the last 
day of the One Hundred Thirteenth Congress.
    (b) Records.--Upon termination of the Special Committee, the 
records of the Committee shall become the records of any committee 
designated by the Speaker.
                                 <all>
