
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 1423 Referred in Senate (RFS)]

113th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                H. R. 1423


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                           February 26, 2014

                                Received

                           February 27, 2014

   Read twice and referred to the Committee on Homeland Security and 
                          Governmental Affairs

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 AN ACT


 
  To provide taxpayers with an annual report disclosing the cost and 
performance of Government programs and areas of duplication among them, 
                        and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Taxpayers Right-To-Know Act''.

SEC. 2. COST AND PERFORMANCE OF GOVERNMENT PROGRAMS.

    (a) Amendment.--Section 1122(a) of title 31, United States Code, is 
amended by adding at the end the following:
            ``(3) Additional information.--
                    ``(A) In general.--Information for each program 
                described under paragraph (1) shall include the 
                following to be updated not less than annually:
                            ``(i) The total administrative cost of the 
                        program for the previous fiscal year.
                            ``(ii) The expenditures for services for 
                        the program for the previous fiscal year.
                            ``(iii) An estimate of the number of 
                        clients served by the program and beneficiaries 
                        who received assistance under the program (if 
                        applicable) for the previous fiscal year.
                            ``(iv) An estimate of, for the previous 
                        fiscal year--
                                    ``(I) the number of full-time 
                                Federal employees who administer the 
                                program; and
                                    ``(II) the number of full-time 
                                employees whose salary is paid in part 
                                or full by the Federal Government 
                                through a grant or contract, a subaward 
                                of a grant or contract, a cooperative 
                                agreement, or another form of financial 
                                award or assistance who administer or 
                                assist in administering the program.
                            ``(v) An identification of the specific 
                        statute that authorizes the program, including 
                        whether such authorization is expired.
                            ``(vi) Any finding of duplication or 
                        overlap identified by internal review, an 
                        Inspector General, the Government 
                        Accountability Office, or other report to the 
                        agency about the program.
                            ``(vii) Any program performance reviews 
                        (including program performance reports required 
                        under section 1116).
                    ``(B) Definitions.--In this paragraph:
                            ``(i) Administrative cost.--The term 
                        `administrative cost' has the meaning as 
                        determined by the Director of the Office of 
                        Management and Budget under section 504(b)(2) 
                        of Public Law 111-85 (31 U.S.C. 1105 note), 
                        except the term shall also include, for 
                        purposes of that section and this paragraph, 
                        with respect to an agency--
                                    ``(I) costs incurred by the agency 
                                as well as costs incurred by grantees, 
                                subgrantees, and other recipients of 
                                funds from a grant program or other 
                                program administered by the agency; and
                                    ``(II) expenses related to 
                                personnel salaries and benefits, 
                                property management, travel, program 
                                management, promotion, reviews and 
                                audits, case management, and 
                                communication about, promotion of, and 
                                outreach for programs and program 
                                activities administered by the agency.
                            ``(ii) Services.--The term `services' has 
                        the meaning provided by the Director of the 
                        Office of Management and Budget and shall be 
                        limited to only activities, assistance, and aid 
                        that provide a direct benefit to a recipient, 
                        such as the provision of medical care, 
                        assistance for housing or tuition, or financial 
                        support (including grants and loans).''.
    (b) Expired Grant Funding.--Not later than February 1 of each 
fiscal year, the Director of the Office of Management and Budget shall 
publish on the public website of the Office of Management and Budget 
the total amount of undisbursed grant funding remaining in grant 
accounts for which the period of availability to the grantee has 
expired.

SEC. 3. GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABILITY OFFICE REQUIREMENTS RELATING TO 
              IDENTIFICATION, CONSOLIDATION, AND ELIMINATION OF 
              DUPLICATIVE GOVERNMENT PROGRAMS.

    Section 21 of the Statutory Pay-As-You-Go Act of 2010 (31 U.S.C. 
712 note) is amended by inserting ``(a)'' before the first sentence and 
by adding at the end the following:
    ``(b) The Comptroller General shall maintain and provide regular 
updates, on not less than an annual basis to a publicly available 
website that tracks the status of responses by Departments and the 
Congress to suggested actions that the Comptroller General has 
previously identified in annual reports under subsection (a). The 
status of these suggested actions shall be tracked for an appropriate 
period to be determined by the Comptroller General. The requirements of 
this subsection shall apply during the effective period of subsection 
(a).''.

SEC. 4. CLASSIFIED INFORMATION.

    Nothing in this Act shall, or the amendments made by this Act, be 
construed to require the disclosure of classified information.

SEC. 5. REGULATIONS AND IMPLEMENTATION.

    (a) Regulations.--Not later than 120 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Director of the Office of Management and 
Budget shall prescribe regulations to implement this Act, and the 
amendments made by this Act.
    (b) Implementation.--This Act, and the amendments made by this Act, 
shall be implemented not later than one year after the date of the 
enactment of this Act.
    (c) No Additional Funds Authorized.--No additional funds are 
authorized to carry out the requirements of this Act, or the amendments 
made by this Act.

            Passed the House of Representatives February 25, 2014.

            Attest:

                                                 KAREN L. HAAS,

                                                                 Clerk.
