
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 1676 Introduced in House (IH)]

113th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                H. R. 1676

To designate the Johnson Valley National Off-Highway Vehicle Recreation 
    Area in San Bernardino County, California, to authorize limited 
 military use of the area, to provide for the transfer of the Southern 
 Study Area to the administrative jurisdiction of the Secretary of the 
    Navy for inclusion in the Marine Corps Air Ground Combat Center 
  Twentynine Palms, and by recreational users, and for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                             April 23, 2013

 Mr. Cook (for himself and Mr. McKeon) introduced the following bill; 
   which was referred to the Committee on Natural Resources, and in 
    addition to the Committee on Armed Services, for a period to be 
subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration 
  of such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the committee 
                               concerned

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
To designate the Johnson Valley National Off-Highway Vehicle Recreation 
    Area in San Bernardino County, California, to authorize limited 
 military use of the area, to provide for the transfer of the Southern 
 Study Area to the administrative jurisdiction of the Secretary of the 
    Navy for inclusion in the Marine Corps Air Ground Combat Center 
  Twentynine Palms, and by recreational users, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Johnson Valley National Off-Highway 
Vehicle Recreation Area Establishment Act''.

SEC. 2. DESIGNATION OF JOHNSON VALLEY NATIONAL OFF-HIGHWAY VEHICLE 
              RECREATION AREA.

    (a) Designation.--The approximately 188,000 acres of public land 
and interests in land administered by the Secretary of the Interior 
through the Bureau of Land Management in San Bernardino County, 
California, as generally depicted as the ``Johnson Valley Off-Highway 
Vehicle Recreation Area'' on the map titled ``Johnson Valley National 
Off-Highway Vehicle Recreation Area and Transfer of the Southern Study 
Area'' and dated April 11, 2013, are hereby designated as the ``Johnson 
Valley National Off-Highway Vehicle Recreation Area''.
    (b) Recreational and Conservation Use.--The Johnson Valley National 
Off-Highway Vehicle Recreation Area is designated for the following 
purposes:
            (1) Public recreation (including off-highway vehicle use, 
        camping, and hiking) when the lands are not used for military 
        training as authorized by section 3.
            (2) Natural resources conservation.
    (c) Withdrawal.--The public land and interests in land included in 
the Johnson Valley National Off-Highway Vehicle Recreation Area are 
hereby withdrawn from all forms of appropriation under the public land 
laws, including the mining laws and the mineral leasing and geothermal 
leasing laws.
    (d) Treatment of Existing Rights.--The designation of the Johnson 
Valley National Off-Highway Vehicle Recreation Area and the withdrawal 
of the public land and interests in land included in the Recreation 
Area are subject to valid existing rights.

SEC. 3. LIMITED BIANNUAL MARINE CORPS AIR GROUND COMBAT CENTER 
              TWENTYNINE PALMS USE OF JOHNSON VALLEY NATIONAL OFF-
              HIGHWAY VEHICLE RECREATION AREA.

    (a) Use for Military Purposes Authorized.--Subject to subsection 
(b), the Secretary of the Interior shall authorize the Secretary of the 
Navy to utilize portions of Johnson Valley National Off-Highway Vehicle 
Recreation Area twice in each calendar year for up to a total of 42 
days per year for the following purposes:
            (1) Sustained, combined arms, live-fire, and maneuver field 
        training for large-scale Marine air-ground task forces.
            (2) Individual and unit live-fire training ranges.
            (3) Equipment and tactics development.
            (4) Other defense-related purposes consistent with the 
        purposes specified in the preceding paragraphs.
    (b) Conditions on Military Use.--
            (1) Consultation and public participation requirements.--
        Before the Secretary of the Navy requests the two time periods 
        for military use of the Johnson Valley National Off-Highway 
        Vehicle Recreation Area in a calendar year, the Secretary of 
        the Navy shall--
                    (A) consult with the Secretary of the Interior 
                regarding the best times for military use to reduce 
                interference with or interruption of nonmilitary 
                activities authorized by section 2(b); and
                    (B) provide for public awareness of and 
                participation in the selection process.
            (2) Public notice.--The Secretary of the Navy shall provide 
        advance, wide-spread notice before any closure of public lands 
        for military use under this section.
            (3) Public safety.--Military use of the Johnson Valley 
        National Off-Highway Vehicle Recreation Area during the 
        biannual periods authorized by subsection (a) shall be 
        conducted in the presence of sufficient range safety officers 
        to ensure the safety of military personnel and civilians.
            (4) Certain types of ordnance prohibited.--The Secretary of 
        the Navy shall prohibit the use of dud-producing ordnance in 
        any military training conducted under subsection (a).
    (c) Implementing Agreement.--
            (1) Agreement required; required terms.--The Secretary of 
        the Interior and the Secretary of the Navy shall enter into a 
        written agreement to implement this section. The agreement 
        shall include a provision for periodic review of the agreement 
        for its adequacy, effectiveness, and need for revision.
            (2) Additional terms.--The agreement may provide for--
                    (A) the integration of the management plans of the 
                Secretary of the Interior and the Secretary of the 
                Navy;
                    (B) delegation to civilian law enforcement 
                personnel of the Department of the Navy of the 
                authority of the Secretary of the Interior to enforce 
                the laws relating to protection of natural and cultural 
                resources and of fish and wildlife; and
                    (C) the sharing of resources in order to most 
                efficiently and effectively manage the lands.
    (d) Duration.--Any agreement for the military use of the Johnson 
Valley National Off-Highway Vehicle Recreation Area shall terminate not 
later than March 31, 2039.

SEC. 4. TRANSFER OF ADMINISTRATIVE JURISDICTION, SOUTHERN STUDY AREA, 
              MARINE CORPS AIR GROUND COMBAT CENTER TWENTYNINE PALMS, 
              CALIFORNIA.

    (a) Transfer Required.--Not later than September 30, 2014, the 
Secretary of the Interior shall transfer, without reimbursement, to the 
administrative jurisdiction of the Secretary of the Navy certain public 
land administered by the Bureau of Land Management consisting of 
approximately 20,000 acres in San Bernardino County, California, as 
generally depicted as the ``Southern Study Area'' on the map referred 
to in section 2.
    (b) Use of Transferred Land.--Upon the receipt of the land under 
subsection (a), the Secretary of the Navy shall include the land as 
part of the Marine Corps Air Ground Combat Center Twentynine Palms, 
California, and authorize use of the land for military purposes.
    (c) Legal Description.--
            (1) Preparation and publication.--The Secretary of the 
        Interior shall publish in the Federal Register a legal 
        description of the public land to be transferred under 
        subsection (a).
            (2) Force of law.--The legal description filed under 
        paragraph (1) shall have the same force and effect as if 
        included in this Act, except that the Secretary of the Interior 
        may correct clerical and typographical errors in the legal 
        description.
    (d) Reimbursement of Costs.--The Secretary of the Navy shall 
reimburse the Secretary of the Interior for any costs incurred by the 
Secretary of the Interior to carry out this section.
                                 <all>
