
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H. Res. 232 Reported in House (RH)]

                                                  House Calendar No. 28
113th CONGRESS
  1st Session
H. RES. 232

                          [Report No. 113-89]

Providing for consideration of the bill (H.R. 1911) to amend the Higher 
Education Act of 1965 to establish interest rates for new loans made on 
             or after July 1, 2013, and for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                              May 22, 2013

     Ms. Foxx, from the Committee on Rules, reported the following 
resolution; which was referred to the House Calendar and ordered to be 
                                printed

_______________________________________________________________________

                               RESOLUTION


 
Providing for consideration of the bill (H.R. 1911) to amend the Higher 
Education Act of 1965 to establish interest rates for new loans made on 
             or after July 1, 2013, and for other purposes.

    Resolved, That upon the adoption of this resolution it shall be in 
order to consider in the House the bill (H.R. 1911) to amend the Higher 
Education Act of 1965 to establish interest rates for new loans made on 
or after July 1, 2013. All points of order against consideration of the 
bill are waived. In lieu of the amendment in the nature of a substitute 
recommended by the Committee on Education and the Workforce now printed 
in the bill, an amendment in the nature of a substitute consisting of 
the text of Rules Committee Print 113-12 shall be considered as 
adopted. The bill, as amended, shall be considered as read. All points 
of order against provisions in the bill, as amended, are waived. The 
previous question shall be considered as ordered on the bill, as 
amended, and on any further amendment thereto, to final passage without 
intervening motion except: (1) one hour of debate equally divided and 
controlled by the chair and ranking minority member of the Committee on 
Education and the Workforce; and (2) one motion to recommit with or 
without instructions.
    Sec. 2.  In the engrossment of H.R. 1911, the Clerk shall--
     (a) await the disposition of H.R. 1949;
    (b) add the text of H.R. 1949, as passed by the House, as new 
matter at the end of H.R. 1911;
    (c) conform the title of H.R. 1911 to reflect the addition of the 
text of H.R. 1949, as passed by the House, to the engrossment;
    (d) assign appropriate designations to provisions within the 
engrossment; and (e) conform cross-references and provisions for short 
titles within the engrossment.
    Sec. 3.  On any legislative day during the period from May 24, 
2013, through May 31, 2013--
     (a) the Journal of the proceedings of the previous day shall be 
considered as approved; and
    (b) the Chair may at any time declare the House adjourned to meet 
at a date and time, within the limits of clause 4, section 5, article I 
of the Constitution, to be announced by the Chair in declaring the 
adjournment.
    Sec. 4.  The Speaker may appoint Members to perform the duties of 
the Chair for the duration of the period addressed by section 3 of this 
resolution as though under clause 8(a) of rule I.
    Sec. 5.  The Committee on Appropriations may, at any time before 6 
p.m. on Wednesday, May 29, 2013, file privileged reports to accompany 
measures making appropriations for the fiscal year ending September 30, 
2014.
    Sec. 6.  The Committee on Agriculture may, at any time before 6 
p.m. on Wednesday, May 29, 2013, file a report to accompany H.R. 1947.
                                                  House Calendar No. 28

113th CONGRESS

  1st Session

                              H. RES. 232

                          [Report No. 113-89]

_______________________________________________________________________

                               RESOLUTION

Providing for consideration of the bill (H.R. 1911) to amend the Higher 
Education Act of 1965 to establish interest rates for new loans made on 
             or after July 1, 2013, and for other purposes.

_______________________________________________________________________

                              May 22, 2013

        Referred to the House Calendar and ordered to be printed
