
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[S. 1629 Introduced in Senate (IS)]

113th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                S. 1629

   To require the disclosure of determinations with respect to which 
    Congressional staff will be required to obtain health insurance 
                     coverage through an Exchange.


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                            October 31, 2013

  Mr. Vitter introduced the following bill; which was read twice and 
referred to the Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
   To require the disclosure of determinations with respect to which 
    Congressional staff will be required to obtain health insurance 
                     coverage through an Exchange.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Show Your Exemption Act''.

SEC. 2. TRANSPARENCY OF COVERAGE DETERMINATION.

    (a) In General.--Not later than 30 days after the date of enactment 
of this Act, the Chief Administrative Officer of the House of 
Representatives and the Financial Clerk of the Senate shall make 
publically available the determinations of each member of the House of 
Representatives and each Senator, as the case may be, regarding the 
designation of their respective congressional staff (including 
leadership and committee staff) as ``official'' for purposes of 
requiring such staff to enroll in health insurance coverage provided 
through an Exchange as required under section 1312(d)(1)(D) of the 
Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (42 U.S.C. 18032(d)(1)(D)), 
and the regulations relating to such section.
    (b) Failure To Submit.--The failure by any member of the House of 
Representatives or Senator to designate any of their respective staff, 
whether committee or leadership staff, as ``official'' (as described in 
subsection (a)), shall be noted in the determination made publically 
available under subsection (a) along with a statement that such failure 
permits the staff involved to remain in the Federal Employee Health 
Benefits Program.
    (c) Privacy.--Nothing in this Act shall be construed to permit the 
release of any individually identifiable information concerning any 
individual, including any health plan selected by an individual.
                                 <all>
