
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H. Res. 628 Engrossed in House (EH)]

H. Res. 628

                In the House of Representatives, U. S.,

                                                         June 18, 2014.
    Resolved, That (a) at any time after adoption of this resolution the Speaker 
may, pursuant to clause 2(b) of rule XVIII, declare the House resolved into the 
Committee of the Whole House on the state of the Union for consideration of the 
bill (H.R. 4870) making appropriations for the Department of Defense for the 
fiscal year ending September 30, 2015, and for other purposes. The first reading 
of the bill shall be dispensed with. All points of order against consideration 
of the bill are waived. General debate shall be confined to the bill and shall 
not exceed one hour equally divided and controlled by the chair and ranking 
minority member of the Committee on Appropriations. After general debate the 
bill shall be considered for amendment under the five-minute rule. Points of 
order against provisions in the bill for failure to comply with clause 2 of rule 
XXI are waived.
     (b) During consideration of the bill for amendment--
            (1) each amendment, other than amendments provided for in paragraph 
        (2), shall be debatable for 10 minutes equally divided and controlled by 
        the proponent and an opponent and shall not be subject to amendment 
        except as provided in paragraph (2);
            (2) no pro forma amendment shall be in order except that the chair 
        and ranking minority member of the Committee on Appropriations or their 
        respective designees may offer up to 10 pro forma amendments each at any 
        point for the purpose of debate; and
            (3) the chair of the Committee of the Whole may accord priority in 
        recognition on the basis of whether the Member offering an amendment has 
        caused it to be printed in the portion of the Congressional Record 
        designated for that purpose in clause 8 of rule XVIII. Amendments so 
        printed shall be considered as read.
    (c) When the committee rises and reports the bill back to the House with a 
recommendation that the bill do pass, the previous question shall be considered 
as ordered on the bill and amendments thereto to final passage without 
intervening motion except one motion to recommit with or without instructions.
    Sec. 2.  Upon adoption of this resolution it shall be in order to take from 
the Speaker's table the bill (H.R. 3230) making continuing appropriations during 
a Government shutdown to provide pay and allowances to members of the reserve 
components of the Armed Forces who perform inactive-duty training during such 
period, with the Senate amendments thereto, and to consider in the House, 
without intervention of any point of order or question of consideration, a 
single motion offered by the chair of the Committee on Veterans' Affairs or his 
designee that the House: (1) concur in the Senate amendment to the title; and 
(2) concur in the Senate amendment to the text with the amendment printed in the 
report of the Committee on Rules accompanying this resolution. The Senate 
amendments and the motion shall be considered as read. The motion shall be 
debatable for one hour equally divided and controlled by the chair and ranking 
minority member of the Committee on Veterans' Affairs. The previous question 
shall be considered as ordered on the motion to adoption without intervening 
motion or demand for division of the question. If the motion is adopted, then it 
shall be in order for the chair of the Committee on Veterans' Affairs or his 
designee to move that the House insist on its amendment to the Senate amendment 
to H.R. 3230 and request a conference with the Senate thereon.
            Attest:

                                                                          Clerk.
