
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 3107 Reported in House (RH)]

                                                 Union Calendar No. 212
113th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                H. R. 3107

                          [Report No. 113-294]

      To require the Secretary of Homeland Security to establish 
  cybersecurity occupation classifications, assess the cybersecurity 
    workforce, develop a strategy to address identified gaps in the 
            cybersecurity workforce, and for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                           September 17, 2013

  Ms. Clarke introduced the following bill; which was referred to the 
                     Committee on Homeland Security

                           December 12, 2013

  Additional sponsors: Mr. Horsford, Mr. Meehan, and Mr. Thompson of 
                              Mississippi

                           December 12, 2013

  Reported with an amendment, committed to the Committee of the Whole 
       House on the State of the Union, and ordered to be printed
 [Strike out all after the enacting clause and insert the part printed 
                               in italic]
    [For text of introduced bill, see copy of bill as introduced on 
                          September 17, 2013]


_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
      To require the Secretary of Homeland Security to establish 
  cybersecurity occupation classifications, assess the cybersecurity 
    workforce, develop a strategy to address identified gaps in the 
            cybersecurity workforce, and for other purposes.


 


    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Homeland Security Cybersecurity 
Boots-on-the-Ground Act''.

SEC. 2. CYBERSECURITY OCCUPATION CLASSIFICATIONS, WORKFORCE ASSESSMENT, 
              AND STRATEGY.

    (a) Cybersecurity Occupation Classifications.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 90 days after the date of 
        the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Homeland Security 
        shall develop and issue comprehensive occupation 
        classifications for individuals performing activities in 
        furtherance of the cybersecurity mission of the Department of 
        Homeland Security.
            (2) Applicability.--The Secretary of Homeland Security 
        shall ensure that the comprehensive occupation classifications 
        issued under paragraph (1) are used throughout the Department 
        of Homeland Security and are made available to other Federal 
        agencies.
    (b) Cybersecurity Workforce Assessment.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 180 days after the date of 
        the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Homeland Security, 
        acting through the Chief Human Capital Officer and Chief 
        Information Officer of the Department of Homeland Security, 
        shall assess the readiness and capacity of the Department to 
        meet its cybersecurity mission.
            (2) Contents.--The assessment required under paragraph (1) 
        shall, at a minimum, include the following:
                    (A) Information where cybersecurity positions are 
                located within the Department of Homeland Security, 
                specified in accordance with the cybersecurity 
                occupation classifications issued under subsection (a).
                    (B) Information on which cybersecurity positions 
                are--
                            (i) performed by--
                                    (I) permanent full time 
                                departmental employees, together with 
                                demographic information about such 
                                employees' race, ethnicity, gender, 
                                disability status, and veterans status;
                                    (II) individuals employed by 
                                independent contractors; and
                                    (III) individuals employed by other 
                                Federal agencies, including the 
                                National Security Agency; and
                            (ii) vacant.
                    (C) The number of individuals hired by the 
                Department pursuant to the authority granted to the 
                Secretary of Homeland Security in 2009 to permit the 
                Secretary to fill 1,000 cybersecurity positions across 
                the Department over a three year period, and 
                information on what challenges, if any, were 
                encountered with respect to the implementation of such 
                authority.
                    (D) Information on vacancies within the 
                Department's cybersecurity supervisory workforce, from 
                first line supervisory positions through senior 
                departmental cybersecurity positions.
                    (E) Information on the percentage of individuals 
                within each cybersecurity occupation classification who 
                received essential training to perform their jobs, and 
                in cases in which such training is not received, 
                information on what challenges, if any, were 
                encountered with respect to the provision of such 
                training.
                    (F) Information on recruiting costs incurred with 
                respect to efforts to fill cybersecurity positions 
                across the Department in a manner that allows for 
                tracking of overall recruiting and identifying areas 
                for better coordination and leveraging of resources 
                within the Department.
    (c) Workforce Strategy.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 180 days after the date of 
        the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Homeland Security 
        shall develop a comprehensive workforce strategy that enhances 
        the readiness, capacity, training, and recruitment and 
        retention of the cybersecurity workforce of the Department of 
        Homeland Security.
            (2) Contents.--The comprehensive workforce strategy 
        developed under paragraph (1) shall include--
                    (A) a multiphased recruitment plan, including 
                relating to experienced professionals, members of 
                disadvantaged or underserved communities, the 
                unemployed, and veterans;
                    (B) a 5-year implementation plan; and
                    (C) a 10-year projection of Federal workforce 
                needs.
    (d) Information Security Training.--Not later than 270 days after 
the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Homeland 
Security shall establish and maintain a process to verify on an ongoing 
basis that individuals employed by independent contractors who serve in 
cybersecurity positions at the Department of Homeland Security receive 
initial and recurrent information security training comprised of 
general security awareness training necessary to perform their job 
functions, and role-based security training that is commensurate with 
assigned responsibilities. The Secretary shall maintain documentation 
to ensure that training provided to an individual under this subsection 
meets or exceeds requirements for such individual's job function.
    (e) Updates.--Together with the submission to Congress of annual 
budget requests, the Secretary of Homeland Security shall provide 
updates regarding the cybersecurity workforce assessment required under 
subsection (b), information on the progress of carrying out the 
comprehensive workforce strategy developed under subsection (c), and 
information on the status of the implementation of the information 
security training required under subsection (d).
    (f) GAO Study.--The Secretary of Homeland Security shall provide 
the Comptroller General of the United States with information on the 
cybersecurity workforce assessment required under subsection (a) and 
progress on carrying out the comprehensive workforce strategy developed 
under subsection (c). The Comptroller General shall submit to the 
Secretary, the Committee on Homeland Security of the House of 
Representatives, and the Committee on Homeland Security and 
Governmental Affairs of the Senate a study on such assessment and 
strategy.

SEC. 3. CYBERSECURITY FELLOWSHIP PROGRAM.

    Not later than 120 days after the date of the enactment of this 
Act, the Secretary of Homeland Security shall submit to the Committee 
on Homeland Security of the House of Representatives and the Committee 
on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs of the Senate a report on 
the feasibility of establishing a Cybersecurity Fellowship Program to 
offer a tuition payment plan for undergraduate and doctoral candidates 
who agree to work for the Department of Homeland Security for an 
agreed-upon period of time.

SEC. 4. DEFINITION.

    In this Act, the term ``cybersecurity mission'' means activities 
that encompass the full range of threat reduction, vulnerability 
reduction, deterrence, incident response, resiliency, and recovery 
activities to foster the security and stability of cyberspace.
                                                 Union Calendar No. 212

113th CONGRESS

  1st Session

                               H. R. 3107

                          [Report No. 113-294]

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL

      To require the Secretary of Homeland Security to establish 
  cybersecurity occupation classifications, assess the cybersecurity 
    workforce, develop a strategy to address identified gaps in the 
            cybersecurity workforce, and for other purposes.

_______________________________________________________________________

                           December 12, 2013

  Reported with an amendment, committed to the Committee of the Whole 
       House on the State of the Union, and ordered to be printed
