
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.J. Res. 71 Placed on Calendar Senate (PCS)]

                                                       Calendar No. 204
113th CONGRESS
  1st Session
H. J. RES. 71


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                            October 3, 2013

Received; read the first time, read the second time, and placed on the 
           calendar pursuant to the order of October 2, 2013

_______________________________________________________________________

                            JOINT RESOLUTION


 
  Making continuing appropriations of local funds of the District of 
                     Columbia for fiscal year 2014.

    Resolved by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United 
States of America in Congress assembled,
    Sec. 1.  This joint resolution may be cited as the ``District of 
Columbia Continuing Appropriations Resolution, 2014''.
    Sec. 2. (a) The District of Columbia may expend local funds under 
the heading ``District of Columbia Funds'' for such programs and 
activities under title IV of H.R. 2786 (113th Congress), as reported by 
the Committee on Appropriations of the House of Representatives, at the 
rate set forth under ``District of Columbia Funds--Summary of 
Expenses'' as included in the Fiscal Year 2014 Budget Request Act of 
2013 (D.C. Act 20-127), as modified as of the date of the enactment of 
this joint resolution.
    (b) Appropriations made by subsection (a) are provided under the 
authority and conditions as provided under the Full-Year Continuing 
Appropriations Act, 2013 (division F of Public Law 113-6) and shall be 
available to the extent and in the manner that would be provided by 
such Act.
    Sec. 3.  Appropriations made and authority granted pursuant to this 
joint resolution shall cover all obligations or expenditures incurred 
for any project or activity during the period for which funds or 
authority for such project or activity are available under this joint 
resolution.
    Sec. 4.  Unless otherwise provided for in this joint resolution or 
in the applicable appropriations Act for fiscal year 2014, 
appropriations and funds made available and authority granted pursuant 
to this joint resolution shall be available until whichever of the 
following first occurs: (1) the enactment into law of an appropriation 
for any project or activity provided for in this joint resolution; (2) 
the enactment into law of the applicable appropriations Act for fiscal 
year 2014 without any provision for such project or activity; or (3) 
December 15, 2013.
    Sec. 5.  Expenditures made pursuant to this joint resolution shall 
be charged to the applicable appropriation, fund, or authorization 
whenever a bill in which such applicable appropriation, fund, or 
authorization is contained is enacted into law.
    Sec. 6.  Appropriations made and funds made available by or 
authority granted pursuant to this joint resolution may be used without 
regard to the time limitations for submission and approval of 
apportionments set forth in section 1513 of title 31, United States 
Code, but nothing in this joint resolution may be construed to waive 
any other provision of law governing the apportionment of funds.
    Sec. 7.  It is the sense of Congress that this joint resolution may 
also be referred to as the ``Provide Local Funding for the District of 
Columbia Act''.

            Passed the House of Representatives October 2, 2013.

            Attest:

                                                 KAREN L. HAAS,

                                                                 Clerk.




                                                       Calendar No. 204

113th CONGRESS

  1st Session

                             H. J. RES. 71

_______________________________________________________________________

                            JOINT RESOLUTION

  Making continuing appropriations of local funds of the District of 
                     Columbia for fiscal year 2014.

_______________________________________________________________________

                            October 3, 2013

Received; read the first time, read the second time, and placed on the 
           calendar pursuant to the order of October 2, 2013
