
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 1191 Introduced in House (IH)]

113th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                H. R. 1191

 To provide that the Secretary of the Interior may accept bids on any 
  new oil and gas leases of Federal lands (including submerged lands) 
only from bidders certifying that all natural gas produced pursuant to 
 such leases shall be offered for sale only in the United States, and 
                          for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                             March 14, 2013

 Mr. Markey (for himself and Mr. Holt) introduced the following bill; 
        which was referred to the Committee on Natural Resources

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
 To provide that the Secretary of the Interior may accept bids on any 
  new oil and gas leases of Federal lands (including submerged lands) 
only from bidders certifying that all natural gas produced pursuant to 
 such leases shall be offered for sale only in the United States, and 
                          for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Keep American Natural Gas Here 
Act''.

SEC. 2. NO FOREIGN SALES OF NATURAL GAS PRODUCED ON FEDERAL LANDS.

    The Secretary of the Interior may accept bids on any new oil and 
gas leases of Federal lands (including submerged lands) under the 
Mineral Leasing Act (30 U.S.C. 181 et seq.) or the Outer Continental 
Shelf Lands Act (43 U.S.C. 1331 et seq.) only from bidders certifying 
that all natural gas produced pursuant to such leases shall be offered 
for sale only in the United States.

SEC. 3. NO FOREIGN SALES OF NATURAL GAS TRANSPORTED OVER FEDERAL 
              PIPELINE RIGHTS-OF-WAY.

    Section 28(a) of the Mineral Leasing Act (30 U.S.C. 185(a)) is 
amended--
            (1) by inserting ``(1)'' after ``(a)''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following:
    ``(2) A new right-of-way for a natural gas pipeline may not be 
granted under this section unless the applicant for the right-of-way 
certifies that all natural gas that is transported via such pipeline 
shall be offered for sale only in the United States.''.

SEC. 4. SUNSET.

    (a) Sunset.--
            (1) In general.--This Act, including any certification made 
        pursuant to this Act, shall have no force or effect after the 
        expiration of the 10-year period beginning on the date of 
        enactment of this Act.
            (2) Conforming amendments.--Section 28(a) of the Mineral 
        Leasing Act (30 U.S.C. 185(a)) is amended--
                    (A) by striking ``(a)(1)'' and inserting ``(a)''; 
                and
                    (B) by striking the paragraph added by the 
                amendment made by section 3(2).
    (b) Report.--Two years before the end of the period referred to in 
subsection (a), the Secretary of the Interior and the Comptroller 
General of the United States shall each submit a report to the Congress 
on the impact of this Act on natural gas production on Federal lands, 
consumption of natural gas in the United States, and prices and markets 
for natural gas in the United States.
                                 <all>
