
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 4096 Introduced in House (IH)]

113th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                H. R. 4096

 To amend title 38, United States Code, to provide for annual cost-of-
  living adjustments to be made automatically by law each year in the 
 rates of disability compensation for veterans with service-connected 
disabilities and the rates of dependency and indemnity compensation for 
       survivors of certain service-connected disabled veterans.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                           February 26, 2014

 Mr. Runyan (for himself and Ms. Titus) introduced the following bill; 
        which was referred to the Committee on Veterans' Affairs

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
 To amend title 38, United States Code, to provide for annual cost-of-
  living adjustments to be made automatically by law each year in the 
 rates of disability compensation for veterans with service-connected 
disabilities and the rates of dependency and indemnity compensation for 
       survivors of certain service-connected disabled veterans.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``American Heroes COLA Act of 2014''.

SEC. 2. AUTOMATIC ANNUAL INCREASE IN RATES OF DISABILITY COMPENSATION 
              AND DEPENDENCY AND INDEMNITY COMPENSATION.

    (a) Indexing to Social Security Increases.--Section 5312 of title 
38, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following 
new subsection:
    ``(d)(1) Whenever there is an increase in benefit amounts payable 
under title II of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 401 et seq.) as a 
result of a determination made under section 215(i) of such Act (42 
U.S.C. 415(i)), the Secretary shall, effective on the date of such 
increase in benefit amounts, increase the dollar amounts in effect for 
the payment of disability compensation and dependency and indemnity 
compensation by the Secretary, as specified in paragraph (2), as such 
amounts were in effect immediately before the date of such increase in 
benefit amounts payable under title II of the Social Security Act, by 
the same percentage as the percentage by which such benefit amounts are 
increased.
    ``(2) The dollar amounts to be increased pursuant to paragraph (1) 
are the following:
            ``(A) Wartime disability compensation.--Each of the dollar 
        amounts in effect under section 1114 of this title.
            ``(B) Additional compensation for dependents.--Each of the 
        dollar amounts in effect under section 1115(1) of this title.
            ``(C) Clothing allowance.--The dollar amount in effect 
        under section 1162 of this title.
            ``(D) Dependency and indemnity compensation to surviving 
        spouse.--Each of the dollar amounts in effect under subsections 
        (a) through (d) of section 1311 of such title.
            ``(E) Dependency and indemnity compensation to children.--
        Each of the dollar amounts in effect under sections 1313(a) and 
        1314 of such title.
    ``(3) Whenever there is an increase under paragraph (1) in amounts 
in effect for the payment of disability compensation and dependency and 
indemnity compensation, the Secretary shall publish such amounts, as 
increased pursuant to such paragraph, in the Federal Register at the 
same time as the material required by section 215(i)(2)(D) of the 
Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 415(i)(2)(D)) is published by reason of 
a determination under section 215(i) of such Act (42 U.S.C. 415(i)).
    ``(4) Each dollar amount increased under paragraph (1), if not a 
whole dollar amount, shall be rounded to the next lower whole dollar 
amount.
    ``(5) The Secretary of Veterans Affairs may adjust 
administratively, consistent with the increases made under subsection 
(a), the rates of disability compensation payable to persons under 
section 10 of Public Law 85-857 (72 Stat. 1263) who have not received 
compensation under chapter 11 of this title.''.
    (b) Effective Date.--Subsection (d) of section 5312 of title 38, 
United States Code, as added by subsection (a) of this section, shall 
take effect on December 1, 2015.
                                 <all>
