
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H. Con. Res. 54 Introduced in House (IH)]

113th CONGRESS
  1st Session
H. CON. RES. 54

Directing the Clerk of the House of Representatives to make corrections 
                   in the enrollment of H.J. Res. 62.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                           September 16, 2013

 Mr. Graves of Georgia submitted the following concurrent resolution; 
which was referred to the Committee on Appropriations, and in addition 
     to the Committee on House Administration, for a period to be 
subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration 
  of such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the committee 
                               concerned

_______________________________________________________________________

                         CONCURRENT RESOLUTION


 
Directing the Clerk of the House of Representatives to make corrections 
                   in the enrollment of H.J. Res. 62.

    Resolved by the House of Representatives (the Senate concurring), 
That in the enrollment of the joint resolution (H.J. Res. 62) making 
continuing appropriations for fiscal year 2014, and for other purposes, 
the Clerk of the House of Representatives is hereby authorized and 
directed--
            (1) in section 101, to strike subsection (b) and insert the 
        following:
    ``(b) The rate for operations provided by subsection (a) for each 
account shall be calculated to reflect the full amount of any reduction 
required in fiscal year 2013 pursuant to--
            ``(1) any provision of division G of the Consolidated and 
        Further Continuing Appropriations Act, 2013 (Public Law 113-6), 
        including section 3004; and
            ``(2) the Presidential sequestration order dated March 1, 
        2013.'';
            (2) in section 109(b), to strike ``2014'' and insert 
        ``2013'';
            (3) in section 112(a), to strike ``$967,473,000'' and 
        insert ``$967,473,000,000'';
            (4) in section 112(c), to strike ``subsection (c)'' and 
        insert ``subsection (d)'';
            (5) at the end of section 114, to insert the following:
    ``(c) Limitation.--No entitlement to benefits under any provision 
of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (Public Law 111-148) 
or title I and subtitle B of title II of the Health Care and Education 
Reconciliation Act of 2010 (Public Law 111-152), or the amendments made 
by either such Act, shall have effect from the date of the enactment of 
this Act until December 31, 2014, nor shall any payment be awarded, 
owed, or made to any State, District, or territory under any such 
provision during that time period.''; and
            (6) at the end of the bill (before the short title), to 
        insert the following:
    ``Sec. 115.  Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the 
Director of the Office of Management and Budget shall not, pursuant to 
the authority granted in section 251A(7)(B) of the Balanced Budget and 
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, make any adjustment to the 
discretionary spending limit in section 251(c)(3) of such Act (as 
amended by section 112(a) of this joint resolution).''.
                                 <all>
