
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 2115 Introduced in House (IH)]

113th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                H. R. 2115

  To amend the National Voter Registration Act of 1993 to require an 
 individual who applies for a motor vehicle driver's license in a new 
State to indicate whether the new State is to serve as the individual's 
residence for purposes of registering to vote in elections for Federal 
                    office, and for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                              May 22, 2013

  Mrs. Miller of Michigan (for herself and Mr. Rokita) introduced the 
     following bill; which was referred to the Committee on House 
                             Administration

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
  To amend the National Voter Registration Act of 1993 to require an 
 individual who applies for a motor vehicle driver's license in a new 
State to indicate whether the new State is to serve as the individual's 
residence for purposes of registering to vote in elections for Federal 
                    office, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Voter Registration Efficiency Act''.

SEC. 2. REQUIRING APPLICANTS FOR MOTOR VEHICLE DRIVER'S LICENSES IN NEW 
              STATE TO INDICATE WHETHER STATE SERVES AS RESIDENCE FOR 
              VOTER REGISTRATION PURPOSES.

    (a) Requirements for Applicants for Licenses.--Section 5(d) of the 
National Voter Registration Act of 1993 (42 U.S.C. 1973gg-3(d)) is 
amended--
            (1) by striking ``Any change'' and inserting ``(1) Any 
        change''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
    ``(2)(A) A State motor vehicle authority shall require each 
individual applying for a motor vehicle driver's license in the State--
            ``(i) to indicate whether the individual resides in another 
        State or resided in another State prior to applying for the 
        license, and, if so, to identify the State involved; and
            ``(ii) to indicate whether the individual intends for the 
        State to serve as the individual's residence for purposes of 
        registering to vote in elections for Federal office.
    ``(B) If pursuant to subparagraph (A)(ii) an individual indicates 
to the State motor vehicle authority that the individual intends for 
the State to serve as the individual's residence for purposes of 
registering to vote in elections for Federal office, the authority 
shall notify the motor vehicle authority of the State identified by the 
individual pursuant to subparagraph (A)(i), who shall notify the chief 
State election official of such State that the individual no longer 
intends for that State to serve as the individual's residence for 
purposes of registering to vote in elections for Federal office.''.
    (b) Effective Date.--The amendments made by subsection (a) shall 
take effect with respect to elections occurring in 2014 or any 
succeeding year.
                                 <all>
