
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[S. 594 Introduced in Senate (IS)]

113th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                 S. 594

    For the relief of Javier Lopez-Urenda and Maria Leticia Arenas.


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                             March 18, 2013

Mrs. Feinstein introduced the following bill; which was read twice and 
               referred to the Committee on the Judiciary

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
    For the relief of Javier Lopez-Urenda and Maria Leticia Arenas.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. PERMANENT RESIDENT STATUS FOR JAVIER LOPEZ-URENDA AND MARIA 
              LETICIA ARENAS.

    (a) In General.--Notwithstanding subsections (a) and (b) of section 
201 of the Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1151), Javier 
Lopez-Urenda and Maria Leticia Arenas shall each be eligible for 
issuance of an immigrant visa or for adjustment of status to that of an 
alien lawfully admitted for permanent residence upon filing an 
application for issuance of an immigrant visa under section 204 of such 
Act (8 U.S.C. 1154) or for adjustment of status to lawful permanent 
resident.
    (b) Adjustment of Status.--If Javier Lopez-Urenda or Maria Leticia 
Arenas enter the United States before the filing deadline specified in 
subsection (c), that alien shall be considered to have entered and 
remained lawfully and shall, if otherwise eligible, be eligible for 
adjustment of status under section 245 of the Immigration and 
Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1255) as of the date of the enactment of this 
Act.
    (c) Deadline for Application and Payment of Fees.--Subsections (a) 
and (b) shall apply only to an application for issuance of an immigrant 
visa or an application for adjustment of status that is filed, with 
appropriate fees, within 2 years after the date of the enactment of 
this Act.
    (d) Reduction of Immigrant Visa Number.--Upon the granting of an 
immigrant visa or permanent residence to Javier Lopez-Urenda and Maria 
Leticia Arenas, the Secretary of State shall instruct the proper 
officer to reduce by two, during the current or next following fiscal 
year, the total number of immigrant visas that are made available to 
natives of the country of the aliens' birth under section 203(a) of the 
Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1153(a)) or, if applicable, 
the total number of immigrant visas that are made available to natives 
of the country of the aliens' birth under section 202(e) of such Act (8 
U.S.C. 1152(e)).
    (e) PAYGO.--The budgetary effects of this Act, for the purpose of 
complying with the Statutory Pay-As-You-Go Act of 2010, shall be 
determined by reference to the latest statement titled ``Budgetary 
Effects of PAYGO Legislation'' for this Act, submitted for printing in 
the Congressional Record by the Chairman of the Senate Budget 
Committee, provided that such statement has been submitted prior to the 
vote on passage.
                                 <all>
