
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.J. Res. 100 Introduced in House (IH)]

113th CONGRESS
  1st Session
H. J. RES. 100

  Making further continuing appropriations for the fiscal year ending 
              September 30, 2014, and for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                            October 30, 2013

    Mr. George Miller of California introduced the following joint 
resolution; which was referred to the Committee on Appropriations, and 
    in addition to the Committee on the Budget, for a period to be 
subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration 
  of such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the committee 
                               concerned

_______________________________________________________________________

                            JOINT RESOLUTION


 
  Making further continuing appropriations for the fiscal year ending 
              September 30, 2014, and for other purposes.

    Resolved by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United 
States of America in Congress assembled, That the following sums are 
hereby appropriated, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise 
appropriated, and out of applicable corporate or other revenues, 
receipts, and funds, for the several departments, agencies, 
corporations, and other organizational units of Government for fiscal 
year 2014, and for other purposes, namely:
    Sec. 101. (a) Such amounts as may be necessary, at the level 
specified in subsection (c) and under the authority and conditions 
provided in applicable appropriations Acts for fiscal year 2013, for 
projects or activities (including the costs of direct loans and loan 
guarantees) that are not otherwise specifically provided for, and for 
which appropriations, funds, or other authority were made available in 
the following appropriations Acts:
            (1) The Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug 
        Administration, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2013 
        (division A of Public Law 113-6), except section 735.
            (2) The Commerce, Justice, Science, and Related Agencies 
        Appropriations Act, 2013 (division B of Public Law 113-6).
            (3) The Department of Defense Appropriations Act, 2013 
        (division C of Public Law 113-6).
            (4) The Department of Homeland Security Appropriations Act, 
        2013 (division D of Public Law 113-6).
            (5) The Military Construction and Veterans Affairs, and 
        Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2013 (division E of Public 
        Law 113-6).
            (6) The Full-Year Continuing Appropriations Act, 2013 
        (division F of Public Law 113-6).
    (b) For purposes of this joint resolution, the term ``level'' means 
an amount.
    (c) The level referred to in subsection (a) shall be the amounts 
appropriated in the appropriations Acts referred to in such subsection, 
including transfers and obligation limitations, except that such level 
shall be calculated--
            (1) except as provided in paragraph (2), to reflect the 
        full amount of any reduction required in fiscal year 2013 
        pursuant to any provision of division G of the Consolidated and 
        Further Continuing Appropriations Act, 2013 (Public Law 113-6), 
        including section 3004; and
            (2) without regard to any reduction required in fiscal year 
        2013 pursuant to the Presidential sequestration order dated 
        March 1, 2013.
    (d)(1) If the total level provided in subsections (a) and (b) is 
less than $1,058,000,000,000, then there is provided an additional 
amount so that the total amounts made available by such subsections 
equals $1,058,000,000,000.
    (2) Any increase made pursuant to paragraph (1) shall be applied 
proportionately--
            (A) to each discretionary account; and
            (B) within each such account, to each program, project, and 
        activity (with programs, projects, and activities as delineated 
        in the appropriation Act or accompanying reports for the 
        relevant fiscal year covering such account or item, or for 
        accounts and items not included in appropriation Acts, as 
        delineated in the most recently submitted President's budget).
    Sec. 102.  Appropriations made by section 101 shall be available to 
the extent and in the manner that would be provided by the pertinent 
appropriations Act.
    Sec. 103.  Appropriations provided by this joint resolution that, 
in the applicable appropriations Act for fiscal year 2013, carried a 
multiple-year or no-year period of availability shall retain a 
comparable period of availability.
    Sec. 104.  No appropriation or funds made available or authority 
granted pursuant to section 101 shall be used to initiate or resume any 
project or activity for which appropriations, funds, or other authority 
were not available during fiscal year 2013.
    Sec. 105.  Except as otherwise expressly provided in this joint 
resolution, the requirements, authorities, conditions, limitations, and 
other provisions of the appropriations Acts referred to in section 101 
shall continue in effect through the date specified in section 106.
    Sec. 106.  Unless otherwise provided for in this joint resolution 
or in the applicable appropriations Act, appropriations and funds made 
available and authority granted pursuant to this joint resolution shall 
be available through September 30, 2014.
    Sec. 107.  Expenditures made pursuant to the Continuing 
Appropriations Act, 2014 (Public Law 113-46) shall be charged to the 
applicable appropriation, fund, or authorization provided by this joint 
resolution.
    Sec. 108.  Funds appropriated by this joint resolution may be 
obligated and expended notwithstanding section 10 of Public Law 91-672 
(22 U.S.C. 2412), section 15 of the State Department Basic Authorities 
Act of 1956 (22 U.S.C. 2680), section 313 of the Foreign Relations 
Authorization Act, Fiscal Years 1994 and 1995 (22 U.S.C. 6212), and 
section 504(a)(1) of the National Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 
3094(a)(1)).
    Sec. 109. (a) For entitlements and other mandatory payments whose 
budget authority was provided in appropriations Acts for fiscal year 
2013, and for activities under the Food and Nutrition Act of 2008, the 
levels established by section 101 shall be the amounts necessary to 
maintain program levels under current law and under the authority and 
conditions provided in the applicable appropriations Acts for fiscal 
year 2013.
    (b) In addition to the amounts otherwise provided by section 101, 
the following amounts shall be available for the following accounts for 
advance payments for the first quarter of fiscal year 2015:
            (1) ``Department of Labor, Office of Workers' Compensation 
        Programs, Special Benefits for Disabled Coal Miners'', for 
        benefit payments under title IV of the Federal Mine Safety and 
        Health Act of 1977, $40,000,000, to remain available until 
        expended.
            (2) ``Department of Health and Human Services, Centers for 
        Medicare and Medicaid Services, Grants to States for 
        Medicaid'', for payments to States or in the case of section 
        1928 on behalf of States under title XIX of the Social Security 
        Act, $106,335,631,000, to remain available until expended.
            (3) ``Department of Health and Human Services, 
        Administration for Children and Families, Payments to States 
        for Child Support Enforcement and Family Support Programs'', 
        for payments to States or other non-Federal entities under 
        titles I, IV-D, X, XI, XIV, and XVI of the Social Security Act 
        and the Act of July 5, 1960 (24 U.S.C. ch. 9), $1,100,000,000, 
        to remain available until expended.
            (4) ``Department of Health and Human Services, 
        Administration for Children and Families, Payments for Foster 
        Care and Permanency'', for payments to States or other non-
        Federal entities under title IV-E of the Social Security Act, 
        $2,200,000,000.
            (5) ``Social Security Administration, Supplemental Security 
        Income Program'', for benefit payments under title XVI of the 
        Social Security Act, $19,300,000,000, to remain available until 
        expended.
    Sec. 110. (a) Each amount incorporated by reference in this joint 
resolution that was previously designated by the Congress for Overseas 
Contingency Operations/Global War on Terrorism pursuant to section 
251(b)(2)(A) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act 
of 1985 or as being for disaster relief pursuant to section 
251(b)(2)(D) of such Act is designated by the Congress for Overseas 
Contingency Operations/Global War on Terrorism pursuant to section 
251(b)(2)(A) of such Act or as being for disaster relief pursuant to 
section 251(b)(2)(D) of such Act, respectively.
    (b) Of the amounts made available by section 101 for ``Social 
Security Administration, Limitation on Administrative Expenses'' for 
the cost associated with continuing disability reviews under titles II 
and XVI of the Social Security Act and for the cost associated with 
conducting redeterminations of eligibility under title XVI of the 
Social Security Act, $273,000,000 is provided to meet the terms of 
section 251(b)(2)(B)(ii)(III) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency 
Deficit Control Act of 1985, as amended, and $469,639,000 is additional 
new budget authority specified for purposes of section 251(b)(2)(B) of 
such Act.
    (c) Section 5 of Public Law 113-6 shall apply to amounts designated 
in subsection (a) for Overseas Contingency Operations/Global War on 
Terrorism.
    Sec. 111.  With respect to any discretionary account for which 
advance appropriations were provided for fiscal year 2014 or 2015 in an 
appropriations Act for fiscal year 2013, in addition to amounts 
otherwise made available by this joint resolution, advance 
appropriations are provided in the same amount for fiscal year 2015 or 
2016, respectively, with a comparable period of availability.
    Sec. 112.  Section 3003 of division G of Public Law 113-6 shall be 
applied to funds appropriated by this joint resolution by substituting 
``fiscal year 2014'' for ``fiscal year 2013'' each place it appears.
    Sec. 113.  Section 408 of the Food for Peace Act (7 U.S.C. 1736b) 
shall be applied by substituting the date specified in section 106 of 
this joint resolution for ``December 31, 2012''.
    Sec. 114.  The authority provided by sections 1205 and 1206 of the 
National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2012 (Public Law 
112-81) shall continue in effect, notwithstanding subsection (h) of 
section 1206, through the earlier of the date specified in section 106 
of this joint resolution or the date of the enactment of an Act 
authorizing appropriations for fiscal year 2014 for military activities 
of the Department of Defense.
    Sec. 115.  Section 14704 of title 40, United States Code, shall be 
applied to amounts made available by this joint resolution by 
substituting the date specified in section 106 of this joint resolution 
for ``October 1, 2012''.
    Sec. 116.  Notwithstanding section 101, the level for ``The 
Judiciary, Courts of Appeals, District Courts, and Other Judicial 
Services, Salaries and Expenses'' shall be $4,820,181,000:  Provided, 
That notwithstanding section 302 of Division C, of Public Law 112-74 as 
continued by Public Law 113-6, not to exceed $25,000,000 shall be 
available for transfer between accounts to maintain minimum operating 
levels.
    Sec. 117.  Notwithstanding section 101, the level for ``The 
Judiciary, Courts of Appeals, District Courts, and Other Judicial 
Services, Defender Services'' shall be $1,012,000,000.
    Sec. 118.  Section 302 of the Universal Service Anti-deficiency 
Temporary Suspension Act is amended by striking ``January 15, 2014'', 
each place it appears and inserting ``September 30, 2014''.
    Sec. 119.  Notwithstanding section 101, the level for the ``Privacy 
and Civil Liberties Oversight Board'' shall be $3,100,000.
    Sec. 120.  For the period covered by this joint resolution, section 
550(b) of Public Law 109-295 (6 U.S.C. 121 note) shall be applied by 
substituting the date specified in section 106 of this joint resolution 
for ``October 4, 2013''.
    Sec. 121.  The authority provided by section 532 of Public Law 109-
295 shall continue in effect through the date specified in section 106 
of this joint resolution.
    Sec. 122.  The authority provided by section 831 of the Homeland 
Security Act of 2002 (6 U.S.C. 391) shall continue in effect through 
the date specified in section 106 of this joint resolution.
    Sec. 123.  Section 810 of the Federal Lands Recreation Enhancement 
Act (16 U.S.C. 6809) shall be applied by substituting ``11 years'' for 
``10 years''.
    Sec. 124.  The authority provided by section 347 of the Department 
of the Interior and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 1999 (as 
contained in section 101(e) of division A of Public Law 105-277; 16 
U.S.C. 2104 note) shall continue in effect through the date specified 
in section 106 of this joint resolution.
    Sec. 125. (a) The authority provided by subsection (m)(3) of 
section 8162 of the Department of Defense Appropriations Act, 2000 (40 
U.S.C. 8903 note; Public Law 106-79), as amended, shall continue in 
effect through the date specified in section 106 of this joint 
resolution.
    (b) For the period covered by this joint resolution, the authority 
provided by the provisos under the heading ``Dwight D. Eisenhower 
Memorial Commission, Capital Construction'' in division E of Public Law 
112-74 shall not be in effect.
    Sec. 126.  Activities authorized under part A of title IV and 
section 1108(b) of the Social Security Act (except for activities 
authorized in section 403(b)) shall continue through the date specified 
in section 106 of this joint resolution in the manner authorized for 
fiscal year 2013, and out of any money in the Treasury of the United 
States not otherwise appropriated, there are hereby appropriated such 
sums as may be necessary for such purpose.
    Sec. 127.  Notwithstanding section 101, the matter under the 
heading ``Department of Labor, Mine Safety and Health Administration, 
Salaries and Expenses'' in division F of Public Law 112-74 shall be 
applied to funds appropriated by this joint resolution by substituting 
``is authorized to collect and retain up to $2,499,000'' for ``may 
retain up to $1,499,000''.
    Sec. 128.  The first proviso under the heading ``Department of 
Health and Human Services, Administration for Children and Families, 
Low Income Home Energy Assistance'' in division F of Public Law 112-74 
shall be applied to amounts made available by this joint resolution by 
substituting ``2014'' for ``2012''.
    Sec. 129.  During the period covered by this joint resolution, 
amounts provided under section 101 for ``Department of Health and Human 
Services, Office of the Secretary, Public Health and Social Services 
Emergency Fund'' may be obligated at a rate necessary to assure timely 
execution of planned advanced research and development contracts 
pursuant to section 319L of the Public Health Service Act, to remain 
available until expended, for expenses necessary to support advanced 
research and development pursuant to section 319L of the Public Health 
Service Act (42 U.S.C. 247d-7e) and other administrative expenses of 
the Biomedical Advanced Research and Development Authority.
    Sec. 130.  Notwithstanding section 101, the level for ``Department 
of Veterans Affairs, Departmental Administration, General Operating 
Expenses, Veterans Benefits Administration'' shall be $2,455,490,000.
    Sec. 131.  The authority provided by the penultimate proviso under 
the heading ``Department of Housing and Urban Development, Rental 
Assistance Demonstration'' in division C of Public Law 112-55 shall 
continue in effect through the date specified in section 106 of this 
joint resolution.
    Sec. 132.  Notwithstanding section 101, the level for ``Department 
of Transportation, Federal Aviation Administration, Operations'' shall 
be $9,248,418,000.
    Sec. 133.  Section 601(e)(1)(B) of division B of Public Law 110-432 
shall be applied by substituting the date specified in section 106 for 
``4 years after such date''.
    Sec. 134.  Notwithstanding section 101, the level for ``Maritime 
Administration, Maritime Security Program'' shall be $186,000,000.
    Sec. 135.  Section 44302(f) of title 49, United States Code, is 
amended by striking ``the date specified in section 106(3) of the 
Continuing Appropriations Act, 2014'' and inserting ``the date 
specified in section 106 of the Full-Year Continuing Appropriations 
Resolution, 2014''.
    Sec. 136.  Section 44303(b) of title 49, United States Code, is 
amended by striking ``the date specified in section 106(3) of the 
Continuing Appropriations Act, 2014'' and inserting ``the date 
specified in section 106 of the Full-Year Continuing Appropriations 
Resolution, 2014''.
    Sec. 137.  Section 44310 of title 49, United States Code, is 
amended by striking ``the date specified in section 106(3) of the 
Continuing Appropriations Act, 2014'' and inserting ``the date 
specified in section 106 of the Full-Year Continuing Appropriations 
Resolution, 2014''.
    Sec. 138.  Not later than March 1, 2014, the head of each 
department and agency of the Federal Government shall prepare, and 
submit to the committee of the United States House of Representatives 
with primary jurisdiction, a report that specifies the top legislative 
and policy priorities of the department or agency for fiscal year 2014 
and includes proposals for legislation consistent with such priorities.
     This joint resolution may be cited as the ``Full-Year Continuing 
Appropriations Resolution, 2014''.
                                 <all>
