
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[S. 2836 Introduced in Senate (IS)]

113th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                S. 2836

 To provide for an integrated plan for the space launch activities of 
                        the Federal Government.


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

           September 17 (legislative day, September 16), 2014

  Mr. Toomey introduced the following bill; which was read twice and 
   referred to the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
 To provide for an integrated plan for the space launch activities of 
                        the Federal Government.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Integrated Space Launch Policy Act 
of 2014''.

SEC. 2. INTEGRATED PLAN ON SPACE LAUNCH ACTIVITIES OF THE FEDERAL 
              GOVERNMENT.

    (a) Plan Required.--The Secretary of Defense and the Administrator 
of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration shall jointly, in 
coordination with the National Security Council, the Director of the 
Office of Science and Technology Policy, and the heads of other 
appropriate agencies of the Federal Government, develop a plan (to be 
known as the ``Integrated Federal Space Launch Plan'') to achieve the 
effective planning, coordination, and execution of the civilian and 
national security space launch activities of the Federal Government in 
order to ensure that the mission needs of the Federal Government for 
reliable, timely, and affordable access to space are met in a cost-
effective manner.
    (b) Elements of Plan.--The plan developed under subsection (a) 
shall include, at a minimum, the following:
            (1) An estimate of the anticipated annual space launch 
        demand of the Federal Government during the 10 fiscal years 
        beginning with the fiscal year beginning in the year in which 
        the plan is developed.
            (2) A description of the capabilities required to meet the 
        demand estimated for purposes of paragraph (1).
            (3) A description of the acquisition plans of each Federal 
        agency covered by the plan for purposes of meeting the demand 
        estimated for purposes of paragraph (1).
            (4) An identification and assessment of opportunities for 
        coordination among Federal agencies in space launch acquisition 
        efforts, and a summary of the lessons learned by the Department 
        of Defense and the National Aeronautics and Space 
        Administration regarding their launch service programs.
            (5) An assessment whether the Department of Defense is 
        currently achieving assured access to space with its space 
        launch in a manner consistent with the provisions of section 
        2273 of title 10, United States Code.
    (c) Submittal of Plan to Congress.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 180 days after the date of 
        the enactment of this Act, the Secretary and the Administrator 
        shall jointly submit the plan developed under subsection (a) to 
        the appropriate committees of Congress.
            (2) Form.--The plan shall be submitted in unclassified 
        form, but may include a classified annex.
    (d) Comptroller General of the United States Assessment.--The 
Comptroller General of the United States shall submit to the 
appropriate committees of Congress a report setting forth an assessment 
of the adequacy of the plan developed under subsection (a), including 
the extent to which the plan includes the launch needs and capabilities 
of the civilian agencies and the national security agencies of the 
Federal Government.
    (e) Appropriate Committees of Congress Defined.--In this section, 
the term ``appropriate committees of Congress'' means--
            (1) the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on 
        Commerce, Science, and Transportation, the Committee on 
        Appropriations, the Committee on the Budget, and the Select 
        Committee on Intelligence of the Senate; and
            (2) the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on 
        Science, Space, and Technology, the Committee on 
        Appropriations, the Committee on the Budget, and the Permanent 
        Select Committee on Intelligence of the House of 
        Representatives.
                                 <all>
