
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[S. Con. Res. 44 Enrolled Bill (ENR)]

        S.Con.Res.44
                                    Agreed to September 19, 2014        

                     One Hundred Thirteenth Congress

                                 of the

                        United States of America


                          AT THE SECOND SESSION

           Begun and held at the City of Washington on Friday,
           the third day of January, two thousand and fourteen


                          Concurrent Resolution

    Resolved by the Senate (the House of Representatives concurring), 
That when the Senate recesses or adjourns on any day from Thursday, 
September 18, 2014, through Tuesday, October 14, 2014, on a motion 
offered pursuant to this concurrent resolution by its Majority Leader 
or his designee, it stand recessed or adjourned until 12:00 noon on 
Wednesday, October 15, 2014, or such other time on that day as may be 
specified by its Majority Leader or his designee in the motion to 
recess or adjourn; and that when the Senate recesses or adjourns on 
Wednesday, October 15, 2014, it stand adjourned until 12:00 noon on 
Wednesday, November 12, 2014, or such other time on that day as may be 
specified by its Majority Leader or his designee, or until the time of 
any reassembly pursuant to section 2 of this concurrent resolution, 
whichever occurs first; and that when the House adjourns on any 
legislative day from Thursday, September 18, 2014, through Friday, 
November 7, 2014, on a motion offered pursuant to this concurrent 
resolution by its Majority Leader or his designee, it stand adjourned 
until 2:00 p.m. on Wednesday, November 12, 2014, or until the time of 
any reassembly pursuant to section 3 of this concurrent resolution, 
whichever occurs first.
    Sec. 2.  (a) The Majority Leader of the Senate or his designee, 
after concurrence with the Minority Leader of the Senate, shall notify 
the Members of the Senate to reassemble at such place and time as he 
may designate if, in his opinion, the public interest shall warrant it.
     (b) After reassembling pursuant to subsection (a), when the Senate 
adjourns on a motion offered pursuant to this subsection by its 
Majority Leader or his designee, the Senate shall again stand adjourned 
pursuant to the first section of this concurrent resolution.
    Sec. 3.  (a) The Speaker or his designee, after consultation with 
the Minority Leader of the House, shall notify the Members of the House 
to reassemble at such place and time as he may designate if, in his 
opinion, the public interest shall warrant it.
     (b) After reassembling pursuant to subsection (a), when the House 
adjourns on a motion offered pursuant to this subsection by its 
Majority Leader or his designee, the House shall again stand adjourned 
pursuant to the first section of this concurrent resolution.
Attest:

                                               Secretary of the Senate.
Attest:

                                 Clerk of the House of Representatives.
