
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.J. Res. 124 Engrossed in House (EH)]

113th CONGRESS
  2d Session
H. J. RES. 124

_______________________________________________________________________

                            JOINT RESOLUTION


 
 Making continuing appropriations for fiscal year 2015, and for other 
                               purposes.

    Resolved by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United 
States of America in Congress assembled, That the following sums are 
hereby appropriated, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise 
appropriated, and out of applicable corporate or other revenues,


              

 receipts, and funds, for the several departments, agencies, 
corporations, and other organizational units of Government for fiscal 
year 2015, and for other purposes, namely:
    Sec. 101. (a) Such amounts as may be necessary, at a rate for 
operations as provided in the applicable appropriations Acts for fiscal 
year 2014 and under the authority and conditions provided in such Acts, 
for continuing projects or activities (including the costs of direct 
loans and loan guarantees) that are not otherwise specifically provided 
for in this joint resolution, that were conducted in fiscal year 2014, 
and for which appropriations, funds, or other authority were made 
available in the following appropriations Acts:
            (1) The Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug 
        Administration, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2014 
        (division A of Public Law 113-76).
            (2) The Commerce, Justice, Science, and Related Agencies 
        Appropriations Act, 2014 (division B of Public Law 113-76).
            (3) The Department of Defense Appropriations Act, 2014 
        (division C of Public Law 113-76).
            (4) The Energy and Water Development and Related Agencies 
        Appropriations Act, 2014 (division D of Public Law 113-76).
            (5) The Financial Services and General Government 
        Appropriations Act, 2014 (division E of Public Law 113-76).
            (6) The Department of Homeland Security Appropriations Act, 
        2014 (division F of Public Law 113-76).
            (7) The Department of the Interior, Environment, and 
        Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2014 (division G of Public 
        Law 113-76).
            (8) The Departments of Labor, Health and Human Services, 
        and Education, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2014 
        (division H of Public Law 113-76).
            (9) The Legislative Branch Appropriations Act, 2014 
        (division I of Public Law 113-76).
            (10) The Military Construction and Veterans Affairs, and 
        Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2014 (division J of Public 
        Law 113-76).
            (11) The Department of State, Foreign Operations, and 
        Related Programs Appropriations Act, 2014 (division K of Public 
        Law 113-76).
            (12) The Transportation, Housing and Urban Development, and 
        Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2014 (division L of Public 
        Law 113-76).
    (b) The rate for operations provided by subsection (a) is hereby 
reduced by 0.0554 percent.
    Sec. 102. (a) No appropriation or funds made available or authority 
granted pursuant to section 101 for the Department of Defense shall be 
used for: (1) the new production of items not funded for production in 
fiscal year 2014 or prior years; (2) the increase in production rates 
above those sustained with fiscal year 2014 funds; or (3) the 
initiation, resumption, or continuation of any project, activity, 
operation, or organization (defined as any project, subproject, 
activity, budget activity, program element, and subprogram within a 
program element, and for any investment items defined as a P-1 line 
item in a budget activity within an appropriation account and an R-1 
line item that includes a program element and subprogram element within 
an appropriation account) for which appropriations, funds, or other 
authority were not available during fiscal year 2014.
    (b) No appropriation or funds made available or authority granted 
pursuant to section 101 for the Department of Defense shall be used to 
initiate multi-year procurements utilizing advance procurement funding 
for economic order quantity procurement unless specifically 
appropriated later.
    Sec. 103.  Appropriations made by section 101 shall be available to 
the extent and in the manner that would be provided by the pertinent 
appropriations Act.
    Sec. 104.  Except as otherwise provided in section 102, no 
appropriation or funds made available or authority granted pursuant to 
section 101 shall be used to initiate or resume any project or activity 
for which appropriations, funds, or other authority were not available 
during fiscal year 2014.
    Sec. 105.  Appropriations made and authority granted pursuant to 
this joint resolution shall cover all obligations or expenditures 
incurred for any project or activity during the period for which funds 
or authority for such project or activity are available under this 
joint resolution.
    Sec. 106.  Unless otherwise provided for in this joint resolution 
or in the applicable appropriations Act for fiscal year 2015, 
appropriations and funds made available and authority granted pursuant 
to this joint resolution shall be available until whichever of the 
following first occurs: (1) the enactment into law of an appropriation 
for any project or activity provided for in this joint resolution; (2) 
the enactment into law of the applicable appropriations Act for fiscal 
year 2015 without any provision for such project or activity; or (3) 
December 11, 2014.
    Sec. 107.  Expenditures made pursuant to this joint resolution 
shall be charged to the applicable appropriation, fund, or 
authorization whenever a bill in which such applicable appropriation, 
fund, or authorization is contained is enacted into law.
    Sec. 108.  Appropriations made and funds made available by or 
authority granted pursuant to this joint resolution may be used without 
regard to the time limitations for submission and approval of 
apportionments set forth in section 1513 of title 31, United States 
Code, but nothing in this joint resolution may be construed to waive 
any other provision of law governing the apportionment of funds.
    Sec. 109.  Notwithstanding any other provision of this joint 
resolution, except section 106, for those programs that would otherwise 
have high initial rates of operation or complete distribution of 
appropriations at the beginning of fiscal year 2015 because of 
distributions of funding to States, foreign countries, grantees, or 
others, such high initial rates of operation or complete distribution 
shall not be made, and no grants shall be awarded for such programs 
funded by this joint resolution that would impinge on final funding 
prerogatives.
    Sec. 110.  This joint resolution shall be implemented so that only 
the most limited funding action of that permitted in the joint 
resolution shall be taken in order to provide for continuation of 
projects and activities.
    Sec. 111. (a) For entitlements and other mandatory payments whose 
budget authority was provided in appropriations Acts for fiscal year 
2014, and for activities under the Food and Nutrition Act of 2008, 
activities shall be continued at the rate to maintain program levels 
under current law, under the authority and conditions provided in the 
applicable appropriations Act for fiscal year 2014, to be continued 
through the date specified in section 106(3).
    (b) Notwithstanding section 106, obligations for mandatory payments 
due on or about the first day of any month that begins after October 
2014 but not later than 30 days after the date specified in section 
106(3) may continue to be made, and funds shall be available for such 
payments.
    Sec. 112.  Amounts made available under section 101 for civilian 
personnel compensation and benefits in each department and agency may 
be apportioned up to the rate for operations necessary to avoid 
furloughs within such department or agency, consistent with the 
applicable appropriations Act for fiscal year 2014, except that such 
authority provided under this section shall not be used until after the 
department or agency has taken all necessary actions to reduce or defer 
non-personnel-related administrative expenses.
    Sec. 113.  Funds appropriated by this joint resolution may be 
obligated and expended notwithstanding section 10 of Public Law 91-672 
(22 U.S.C. 2412), section 15 of the State Department Basic Authorities 
Act of 1956 (22 U.S.C. 2680), section 313 of the Foreign Relations 
Authorization Act, Fiscal Years 1994 and 1995 (22 U.S.C. 6212), and 
section 504(a)(1) of the National Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 
3094(a)(1)).
    Sec. 114. (a) Each amount incorporated by reference in this joint 
resolution that was previously designated by the Congress for Overseas 
Contingency Operations/Global War on Terrorism pursuant to section 
251(b)(2)(A) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act 
of 1985 or as being for disaster relief pursuant to section 
251(b)(2)(D) of such Act is designated by the Congress for Overseas 
Contingency Operations/Global War on Terrorism pursuant to section 
251(b)(2)(A) of such Act or as being for disaster relief pursuant to 
section 251(b)(2)(D) of such Act, respectively.
    (b) The reduction in section 101(b) of this joint resolution shall 
not apply to--
            (1) amounts designated under subsection (a) of this 
        section; or
            (2) amounts made available by section 101(a) by reference 
        to the second paragraph under the heading ``Social Security 
        Administration--Limitation on Administrative Expenses'' in 
        division H of Public Law 113-76.
    (c) Section 6 of Public Law 113-76 shall apply to amounts 
designated in subsection (a) for Overseas Contingency Operations/Global 
War on Terrorism.
    Sec. 115.  During the period covered by this joint resolution, 
discretionary amounts appropriated for fiscal year 2015 that were 
provided in advance by appropriations Acts shall be available in the 
amounts provided in such Acts, reduced by the percentage in section 
101(b).
    Sec. 116.  Notwithstanding section 101, amounts are provided for 
``Department of Agriculture--Domestic Food Programs--Food and Nutrition 
Service--Commodity Assistance Program'' at a rate for operations of 
$275,701,000, of which $208,682,000 shall be for the Commodity 
Supplemental Food Program.
    Sec. 117.  For ``Department of Health and Human Services--Food and 
Drug Administration--Salaries and Expenses'', amounts shall be made 
available by this joint resolution as if ``outsourcing facility fees 
authorized by 21 U.S.C. 379j-62,'' were included after ``21 U.S.C. 
381,'' in the second paragraph under such heading in division A of 
Public Law 113-76.
    Sec. 118.  Amounts made available by section 101 for ``Department 
of Commerce--National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration--
Procurement, Acquisition and Construction'' may be apportioned up to 
the rate for operations necessary to maintain the planned launch 
schedules for the Joint Polar Satellite System and the Geostationary 
Operational Environmental Satellite system.
    Sec. 119.  Notwithstanding any other provision of law, except 
sections 106 and 107 of this joint resolution, for ``Department of 
Defense--Overseas Contingency Operations--Operation and Maintenance--
Operation and Maintenance, Army'', up to $50,000,000, to be derived by 
reducing the amount otherwise made available by section 101 for such 
account, may be used to conduct surface and subsurface clearance of 
unexploded ordnance at closed training ranges used by the Armed Forces 
of the United States in Afghanistan: Provided, That such funds may only 
be used if the training ranges are not transferred to the Islamic 
Republic of Afghanistan for use by its armed forces: Provided further, 
That the authority provided by this section shall continue in effect 
through the earlier of the date specified in section 106(3) of this 
joint resolution or the date of the enactment of an Act authorizing 
appropriations for fiscal year 2015 for military activities of the 
Department of Defense: Provided further, That such amount is designated 
as provided under section 114 for such account.
    Sec. 120.  The following authorities shall continue in effect 
through the earlier of the date specified in section 106(3) of this 
joint resolution or the date of the enactment of an Act authorizing 
appropriations for fiscal year 2015 for military activities of the 
Department of Defense:
            (1) Section 1004 of the National Defense Authorization Act 
        for Fiscal Year 1991 (Public Law 101-510; 10 U.S.C. 374 note).
            (2) Section 1215 of the National Defense Authorization Act 
        for Fiscal Year 2012 (Public Law 112-81; 10 U.S.C. 113 note).
            (3) Section 127b of title 10, United States Code, 
        notwithstanding subsection (c)(3)(C) of such section.
            (4) Subsection (b) of section 572 of the National Defense 
        Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2006 (20 U.S.C. 7703b(b)), 
        notwithstanding paragraph (4) of such subsection.
    Sec. 121. (a) Funds made available by section 101 for ``Department 
of Energy--Energy Programs--Uranium Enrichment Decontamination and 
Decommissioning Fund'' may be apportioned up to the rate for operations 
necessary to avoid disruption of continuing projects or activities 
funded in this appropriation.
    (b) The Secretary of Energy shall notify the Committees on 
Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the Senate not later 
than 3 days after each use of the authority provided in subsection (a).
    Sec. 122. (a) Funds made available by section 101 for ``Department 
of Energy--Environmental and Other Defense Activities--Defense 
Environmental Cleanup'' for the Waste Isolation Pilot Plant may be 
obligated at a rate for operations necessary to assure timely execution 
of activities necessary to restore and upgrade the repository.
    (b) The Secretary of Energy shall notify the Committees on 
Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the Senate on each 
use of the spending rate authority provided in this section that 
exceeds customary apportionment allocations.
    Sec. 123.  Notwithstanding any other provision of this joint 
resolution, except section 106, the District of Columbia may expend 
local funds under the heading ``District of Columbia Funds'' for such 
programs and activities under title IV of H.R. 5016 (113th Congress), 
as passed by the House of Representatives on July 16, 2014, at the rate 
set forth under ``District of Columbia Funds--Summary of Expenses'' as 
included in the Fiscal Year 2015 Budget Request Act of 2014 (D.C. Act 
20-370), as modified as of the date of the enactment of this joint 
resolution.
    Sec. 124.  Notwithstanding section 101, amounts are provided for 
``Office of Special Counsel--Salaries and Expenses'' at a rate for 
operations of $22,939,000.
    Sec. 125.  The third proviso under the heading ``Small Business 
Administration--Business Loans Program Account'' in division E of 
Public Law 113-76 is amended by striking ``$17,500,000,000'' and 
inserting ``$18,500,000,000'': Provided, That amounts made available by 
section 101 for such proviso under such heading may be apportioned up 
to the rate for operations necessary to accommodate increased demand 
for commitments to general business loans under section 7(a) of the 
Small Business Act: Provided further, That this section shall become 
effective upon enactment of this joint resolution.
    Sec. 126.  Sections 1101(a) and 1104(a)(2)(A) of the Internet Tax 
Freedom Act (title XI of division C of Public Law 105-277; 47 U.S.C. 
151 note) shall be applied by substituting the date specified in 
section 106(3) of this joint resolution for ``November 1, 2014''.
    Sec. 127.  Section 550(b) of Public Law 109-295 (6 U.S.C. 121 note) 
shall be applied by substituting the date specified in section 106(3) 
of this joint resolution for ``October 4, 2014''.
    Sec. 128.  The authority provided by section 831 of the Homeland 
Security Act of 2002 (6 U.S.C. 391) shall continue in effect through 
the date specified in section 106(3) of this joint resolution.
    Sec. 129. (a) Amounts made available by section 101 for the 
Department of Homeland Security for ``U.S. Customs and Border 
Protection--Salaries and Expenses'', ``U.S. Customs and Border 
Protection--Border Security Fencing, Infrastructure, and Technology'', 
``U.S. Customs and Border Protection--Air and Marine Operations'', 
``U.S. Customs and Border Protection--Construction and Facilities 
Management'', and ``U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement--Salaries 
and Expenses'' shall be obligated at a rate for operations as necessary 
to respectively--
            (1) sustain the staffing levels of U.S. Customs and Border 
        Protection officers and Border Patrol agents in accordance with 
        the provisos under the heading ``U.S. Customs and Border 
        Protection--Salaries and Expenses'' in division F of Public Law 
        113-76;
            (2) sustain border security and immigration enforcement 
        operations;
            (3) sustain necessary Air and Marine operations; and
            (4) sustain the staffing levels of U.S. Immigration and 
        Customs Enforcement agents, equivalent to the staffing levels 
        achieved on September 30, 2014, and comply with the fifth 
        proviso under the heading ``U.S. Immigration and Customs 
        Enforcement--Salaries and Expenses'' in division F of Public 
        Law 113-76.
    (b) The Secretary of Homeland Security shall notify the Committees 
on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the Senate on 
each use of the authority provided in this section.
    Sec. 130.  Section 810 of the Federal Lands Recreation Enhancement 
Act (16 U.S.C. 6809) shall be applied by substituting ``on the date 
that is 1 year after the date specified in section 106(3) of the 
Continuing Appropriations Resolution, 2015'' for ``10 years after the 
date of the enactment of this Act''.
    Sec. 131. (a) The authority provided by subsection (m)(3) of 
section 8162 of the Department of Defense Appropriations Act, 2000 (40 
U.S.C. 8903 note; Public Law 106-79) shall continue in effect through 
the date specified in section 106(3) of this joint resolution.
    (b) For the period covered by this joint resolution, the authority 
provided by the provisos under the heading ``Dwight D. Eisenhower 
Memorial Commission--Capital Construction'' in division E of Public Law 
112-74 shall not be in effect.
    Sec. 132.  Activities authorized under part A of title IV and 
section 1108(b) of the Social Security Act (other than under section 
413(h) of such Act) shall continue through the date specified in 
section 106(3) of this joint resolution, in the manner authorized for 
fiscal year 2014 (except that the amount appropriated for section 
403(b) of such Act shall be $598,000,000, and the requirement to 
reserve funds provided for in section 403(b)(2) of such Act shall not 
apply with respect to this section), and out of any money in the 
Treasury of the United States not otherwise appropriated, there are 
hereby appropriated such sums as may be necessary for such purpose. 
Grants and payments may be made pursuant to this authority through the 
applicable portion of the first quarter of fiscal year 2015 at the pro 
rata portion of the level provided for such activities through the 
first quarter of fiscal year 2014.
    Sec. 133.  Amounts allocated to Head Start grantees from amounts 
identified in the seventh proviso under the heading ``Department of 
Health and Human Services--Administration for Children and Families--
Children and Families Services Programs'' in Public Law 113-76 shall 
not be included in the calculation of the ``base grant'' in fiscal year 
2015, as such term is used in section 640(a)(7)(A) of the Head Start 
Act (42 U.S.C. 9835(a)(7)(A)).
    Sec. 134.  The first proviso under the heading ``Department of 
Health and Human Services--Administration for Children and Families--
Low Income Home Energy Assistance'' in division H of Public Law 113-76 
shall be applied to amounts made available by this joint resolution by 
substituting ``2015'' for ``2014''.
    Sec. 135.  Amounts provided by this joint resolution for 
``Department of Health and Human Services--Administration for Children 
and Families--Refugee and Entrant Assistance'' may be apportioned up to 
the rate for operations necessary to maintain program operations at the 
level provided in fiscal year 2014.
    Sec. 136.  In addition to the amount otherwise provided by this 
joint resolution for ``Department of Health and Human Services--Office 
of the Secretary--Public Health and Social Services Emergency Fund'', 
there is appropriated $58,000,000 for an additional amount for fiscal 
year 2015, to remain available until September 30, 2015, for expenses 
necessary to support acceleration of countermeasure and product 
advanced research and development pursuant to section 319L of the 
Public Health Service Act for addressing Ebola.
    Sec. 137.  In addition to the amount otherwise provided by this 
joint resolution for ``Department of Health and Human Services--Centers 
for Disease Control and Prevention--Global Health'', there is 
appropriated $30,000,000 for an additional amount for fiscal year 2015, 
to remain available until September 30, 2015, for expenses necessary to 
support the responses of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention 
(referred to in this section as the ``CDC'') to the outbreak of Ebola 
virus in Africa: Provided, That such funds shall be available for 
transfer by the Director of the CDC to other accounts of the CDC for 
such support: Provided further, That the Director of the CDC shall 
notify the Committees on Appropriations of the House of Representatives 
and the Senate not later than 30 days after the date of any transfer 
under the preceding proviso.
    Sec. 138.  Amounts made available by this joint resolution for 
``Department of Education--Rehabilitation Services and Disability 
Research'', ``Department of Education--Departmental Management--Program 
Administration'', and ``Department of Health and Human Services--
Administration for Community Living--Aging and Disability Services 
Programs'' may be obligated in the account and budget structure set 
forth in section 491 of the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act 
(42 U.S.C. 3515e).
    Sec. 139.  Of the unobligated balance of amounts provided by 
section 108 of Public Law 111-3, $4,549,000,000 is rescinded.
    Sec. 140.  Section 113 of division H of Public Law 113-76 shall be 
applied by substituting the date specified in section 106(3) for 
``September 30, 2014''.
    Sec. 141. (a) Notwithstanding section 101, amounts are made 
available for accounts in title I of division J of Public Law 113-76 at 
an aggregate rate for operations of $6,558,223,500.
    (b) Not later than 30 days after the date of enactment of this 
joint resolution, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the 
Committees on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the 
Senate a report delineating the allocation of budget authority in 
subsection (a) by account and project.
    Sec. 142.  Notwithstanding section 101, amounts are provided for 
``Department of Veterans Affairs--Departmental Administration--General 
Operating Expenses, Veterans Benefits Administration'' at a rate for 
operations of $2,524,254,000.
    Sec. 143.  Notwithstanding section 101, amounts are provided for 
``Department of Veterans Affairs--Departmental Administration--Office 
of Inspector General'' at a rate for operations of $126,411,000.
    Sec. 144.  Section 209 of the International Religious Freedom Act 
of 1998 (22 U.S.C. 6436) shall be applied by substituting the date 
specified in section 106(3) of this joint resolution for ``September 
30, 2014''.
    Sec. 145.  Amounts made available by section 101 for ``Broadcasting 
Board of Governors--International Broadcasting Operations'', 
``Bilateral Economic Assistance--Funds Appropriated to the President--
Economic Support Fund'', ``International Security Assistance--
Department of State--International Narcotics Control and Law 
Enforcement'', ``International Security Assistance--Department of 
State--Nonproliferation, Anti-terrorism, Demining and Related 
Programs'', and ``International Security Assistance--Funds Appropriated 
to the President--Foreign Military Financing Program'' shall be 
obligated at a rate for operations as necessary to sustain assistance 
for Ukraine and independent states of the Former Soviet Union and 
Central and Eastern Europe to counter external, regional aggression and 
influence.
    Sec. 146.  Section 7081(4) of division K of Public Law 113-76 shall 
be applied to amounts made available by this joint resolution by 
substituting the date specified in section 106(3) of this joint 
resolution for ``September 30, 2014''.
    Sec. 147.  The Export-Import Bank Act of 1945 (12 U.S.C. 635 et 
seq.) shall be applied through June 30, 2015, by substituting such date 
for ``September 30, 2014'' in section 7 of such Act.
    Sec. 148. (a) Section 44302(f) of title 49, United States Code, is 
amended by striking ``September 30, 2014'' and inserting ``the date 
specified in section 106(3) of the Continuing Appropriations 
Resolution, 2015''.
    (b) Section 44303(b) of title 49, United States Code, is amended by 
striking ``September 30, 2014'' and inserting ``the date specified in 
section 106(3) of the Continuing Appropriations Resolution, 2015''.
    (c) Section 44310(a) of title 49, United States Code, is amended by 
striking ``September 30, 2014'' and inserting ``the date specified in 
section 106(3) of the Continuing Appropriations Resolution, 2015''.
    Sec. 149. (a) The Secretary of Defense is authorized, in 
coordination with the Secretary of State, to provide assistance, 
including training, equipment, supplies, and sustainment, to 
appropriately vetted elements of the Syrian opposition and other 
appropriately vetted Syrian groups and individuals for the following 
purposes:
            (1) Defending the Syrian people from attacks by the Islamic 
        State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL), and securing territory 
        controlled by the Syrian opposition.
            (2) Protecting the United States, its friends and allies, 
        and the Syrian people from the threats posed by terrorists in 
        Syria.
            (3) Promoting the conditions for a negotiated settlement to 
        end the conflict in Syria.
    (b) Not later than 15 days prior to providing assistance authorized 
under subsection (a) to vetted recipients for the first time--
            (1) the Secretary of Defense, in coordination with the 
        Secretary of State, shall submit to the appropriate 
        congressional committees and leadership of the House of 
        Representatives and Senate a report, in unclassified form with 
        a classified annex as appropriate, that contains a description 
        of--
                    (A) the plan for providing such assistance;
                    (B) the requirements and process used to determine 
                appropriately vetted recipients; and
                    (C) the mechanisms and procedures that will be used 
                to monitor and report to the appropriate congressional 
                committees and leadership of the House of 
                Representatives and Senate on unauthorized end-use of 
                provided training and equipment and other violations of 
                relevant law by recipients; and
            (2) the President shall submit to the appropriate 
        congressional committees and leadership of the House of 
        Representatives and Senate a report, in unclassified form with 
        a classified annex as appropriate, that contains a description 
        of how such assistance fits within a larger regional strategy.
    (c) The plan required in subsection (b)(1) shall include a 
description of--
            (1) the goals and objectives of assistance authorized under 
        subsection (a);
            (2) the concept of operations, timelines, and types of 
        training, equipment, and supplies to be provided;
            (3) the roles and contributions of partner nations;
            (4) the number of United States Armed Forces personnel 
        involved;
            (5) any additional military support and sustainment 
        activities; and
            (6) any other relevant details.
    (d) Not later than 90 days after the Secretary of Defense submits 
the report required in subsection (b)(1), and every 90 days thereafter, 
the Secretary of Defense, in coordination with the Secretary of State, 
shall provide the appropriate congressional committees and leadership 
of the House of Representatives and the Senate with a progress report. 
Such progress report shall include a description of--
            (1) any updates to or changes in the plan, strategy, 
        vetting requirements and process, and end-use monitoring 
        mechanisms and procedures, as required in subsection (b)(1);
            (2) statistics on green-on-blue attacks and how such 
        attacks are being mitigated;
            (3) the groups receiving assistance authorized under 
        subsection (a);
            (4) the recruitment, throughput, and retention rates of 
        recipients and equipment;
            (5) any misuse or loss of provided training and equipment 
        and how such misuse or loss is being mitigated; and
            (6) an assessment of the effectiveness of the assistance 
        authorized under subsection (a) as measured against subsections 
        (b) and (c).
    (e) For purposes of this section, the following definitions shall 
apply:
            (1) The term ``appropriately vetted'' means, with respect 
        to elements of the Syrian opposition and other Syrian groups 
        and individuals, at a minimum, assessments of such elements, 
        groups, and individuals for associations with terrorist groups, 
        Shia militias aligned with or supporting the Government of 
        Syria, and groups associated with the Government of Iran. Such 
        groups include, but are not limited to, the Islamic State of 
        Iraq and the Levant (ISIL), Jabhat al Nusrah, Ahrar al Sham, 
        other al-Qaeda related groups, and Hezbollah.
            (2) The term ``appropriate congressional committees'' 
        means--
                    (A) the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee 
                on Foreign Affairs, the Committee on Appropriations, 
                and the Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence of 
                the House of Representatives; and
                    (B) the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee 
                on Foreign Relations, the Committee on Appropriations, 
                and the Select Committee on Intelligence of the Senate.
    (f) The Department of Defense may submit a reprogramming or 
transfer request to the congressional defense committees for funds made 
available by section 101(a)(3) of this joint resolution and designated 
in section 114 of this joint resolution to carry out activities 
authorized under this section notwithstanding sections 102 and 104 of 
this joint resolution.
    (g) The Secretary of Defense may accept and retain contributions, 
including assistance in-kind, from foreign governments to carry out 
activities as authorized by this section which shall be credited to 
appropriations made available by this joint resolution for the 
appropriate operation and maintenance accounts, except that any funds 
so accepted by the Secretary shall not be available for obligation 
until a reprogramming action is submitted to the congressional defense 
committees: Provided, That amounts made available by this subsection 
are designated by the Congress for Overseas Contingency Operations/
Global War on Terrorism pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A) of the 
Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985: Provided 
further, That such amounts shall be available only if the President so 
designates such amounts and transmits such designations to the 
Congress.
    (h) The authority provided in this section shall continue in effect 
through the earlier of the date specified in section 106(3) of this 
joint resolution or the date of the enactment of an Act authorizing 
appropriations for fiscal year 2015 for military activities of the 
Department of Defense.
    (i) Nothing in this section shall be construed to constitute a 
specific statutory authorization for the introduction of United States 
Armed Forces into hostilities or into situations wherein hostilities 
are clearly indicated by the circumstances.
    (j) Nothing in this section supersedes or alters the continuing 
obligations of the President to report to Congress pursuant to section 
4 of the War Powers Resolution (50 U.S.C. 1543) regarding the use of 
United States Armed Forces abroad.
     This joint resolution may be cited as the ``Continuing 
Appropriations Resolution, 2015''.

            Passed the House of Representatives September 17, 2014.

            Attest:

                                                                 Clerk.
113th CONGRESS

  2d Session

                             H. J. RES. 124

_______________________________________________________________________

                            JOINT RESOLUTION

 Making continuing appropriations for fiscal year 2015, and for other 
                               purposes.
