
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[S. 2519 Engrossed in Senate (ES)]

113th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                S. 2519

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 AN ACT


 
       To codify an existing operations center for cybersecurity.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``National Cybersecurity Protection 
Act of 2014''.

SEC. 2. DEFINITIONS.

    In this Act--
            (1) the term ``Center'' means the national cybersecurity 
        and communications integration center under section 226 of the 
        Homeland Security Act of 2002, as added by section 3;
            (2) the term ``critical infrastructure'' has the meaning 
        given that term in section 2 of the Homeland Security Act of 
        2002 (6 U.S.C. 101);
            (3) the term ``cybersecurity risk'' has the meaning given 
        that term in section 226 of the Homeland Security Act of 2002, 
        as added by section 3;
            (4) the term ``information sharing and analysis 
        organization'' has the meaning given that term in section 
        212(5) of the Homeland Security Act of 2002 (6 U.S.C. 131(5));
            (5) the term ``information system'' has the meaning given 
        that term in section 3502(8) of title 44, United States Code; 
        and
            (6) the term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary of Homeland 
        Security.

SEC. 3. NATIONAL CYBERSECURITY AND COMMUNICATIONS INTEGRATION CENTER.

    (a) In General.--Subtitle C of title II of the Homeland Security 
Act of 2002 (6 U.S.C. 141 et seq.) is amended by adding at the end the 
following:

``SEC. 226. NATIONAL CYBERSECURITY AND COMMUNICATIONS INTEGRATION 
              CENTER.

    ``(a) Definitions.--In this section--
            ``(1) the term `cybersecurity risk' means threats to and 
        vulnerabilities of information or information systems and any 
        related consequences caused by or resulting from unauthorized 
        access, use, disclosure, degradation, disruption, modification, 
        or destruction of information or information systems, including 
        such related consequences caused by an act of terrorism;
            ``(2) the term `incident' means an occurrence that--
                    ``(A) actually or imminently jeopardizes, without 
                lawful authority, the integrity, confidentiality, or 
                availability of information on an information system; 
                or
                    ``(B) constitutes a violation or imminent threat of 
                violation of law, security policies, security 
                procedures, or acceptable use policies;
            ``(3) the term `information sharing and analysis 
        organization' has the meaning given that term in section 
        212(5); and
            ``(4) the term `information system' has the meaning given 
        that term in section 3502(8) of title 44, United States Code.
    ``(b) Center.--There is in the Department a national cybersecurity 
and communications integration center (referred to in this section as 
the `Center') to carry out certain responsibilities of the Under 
Secretary appointed under section 103(a)(1)(H).
    ``(c) Functions.--The cybersecurity functions of the Center shall 
include--
            ``(1) being a Federal civilian interface for the multi-
        directional and cross-sector sharing of information related to 
        cybersecurity risks, incidents, analysis, and warnings for 
        Federal and non-Federal entities;
            ``(2) providing shared situational awareness to enable 
        real-time, integrated, and operational actions across the 
        Federal Government and non-Federal entities to address 
        cybersecurity risks and incidents to Federal and non-Federal 
        entities;
            ``(3) coordinating the sharing of information related to 
        cybersecurity risks and incidents across the Federal 
        Government;
            ``(4) facilitating cross-sector coordination to address 
        cybersecurity risks and incidents, including cybersecurity 
        risks and incidents that may be related or could have 
        consequential impacts across multiple sectors;
            ``(5)(A) conducting integration and analysis, including 
        cross-sector integration and analysis, of cybersecurity risks 
        and incidents; and
            ``(B) sharing the analysis conducted under subparagraph (A) 
        with Federal and non-Federal entities;
            ``(6) upon request, providing timely technical assistance, 
        risk management support, and incident response capabilities to 
        Federal and non-Federal entities with respect to cybersecurity 
        risks and incidents, which may include attribution, mitigation, 
        and remediation; and
            ``(7) providing information and recommendations on security 
        and resilience measures to Federal and non-Federal entities, 
        including information and recommendations to--
                    ``(A) facilitate information security; and
                    ``(B) strengthen information systems against 
                cybersecurity risks and incidents.
    ``(d) Composition.--
            ``(1) In general.--The Center shall be composed of--
                    ``(A) appropriate representatives of Federal 
                entities, such as--
                            ``(i) sector-specific agencies;
                            ``(ii) civilian and law enforcement 
                        agencies; and
                            ``(iii) elements of the intelligence 
                        community, as that term is defined under 
                        section 3(4) of the National Security Act of 
                        1947 (50 U.S.C. 3003(4));
                    ``(B) appropriate representatives of non-Federal 
                entities, such as--
                            ``(i) State and local governments;
                            ``(ii) information sharing and analysis 
                        organizations; and
                            ``(iii) owners and operators of critical 
                        information systems;
                    ``(C) components within the Center that carry out 
                cybersecurity and communications activities;
                    ``(D) a designated Federal official for operational 
                coordination with and across each sector; and
                    ``(E) other appropriate representatives or 
                entities, as determined by the Secretary.
            ``(2) Incidents.--In the event of an incident, during 
        exigent circumstances the Secretary may grant a Federal or non-
        Federal entity immediate temporary access to the Center.
    ``(e) Principles.--In carrying out the functions under subsection 
(c), the Center shall ensure--
            ``(1) to the extent practicable, that--
                    ``(A) timely, actionable, and relevant information 
                related to cybersecurity risks, incidents, and analysis 
                is shared;
                    ``(B) when appropriate, information related to 
                cybersecurity risks, incidents, and analysis is 
                integrated with other relevant information and tailored 
                to the specific characteristics of a sector;
                    ``(C) activities are prioritized and conducted 
                based on the level of risk;
                    ``(D) industry sector-specific, academic, and 
                national laboratory expertise is sought and receives 
                appropriate consideration;
                    ``(E) continuous, collaborative, and inclusive 
                coordination occurs--
                            ``(i) across sectors; and
                            ``(ii) with--
                                    ``(I) sector coordinating councils;
                                    ``(II) information sharing and 
                                analysis organizations; and
                                    ``(III) other appropriate non-
                                Federal partners;
                    ``(F) as appropriate, the Center works to develop 
                and use mechanisms for sharing information related to 
                cybersecurity risks and incidents that are technology-
                neutral, interoperable, real-time, cost-effective, and 
                resilient; and
                    ``(G) the Center works with other agencies to 
                reduce unnecessarily duplicative sharing of information 
                related to cybersecurity risks and incidents;
            ``(2) that information related to cybersecurity risks and 
        incidents is appropriately safeguarded against unauthorized 
        access; and
            ``(3) that activities conducted by the Center comply with 
        all policies, regulations, and laws that protect the privacy 
        and civil liberties of United States persons.
    ``(f) No Right or Benefit.--
            ``(1) In general.--The provision of assistance or 
        information to, and inclusion in the Center of, governmental or 
        private entities under this section shall be at the sole and 
        unreviewable discretion of the Under Secretary appointed under 
        section 103(a)(1)(H).
            ``(2) Certain assistance or information.--The provision of 
        certain assistance or information to, or inclusion in the 
        Center of, one governmental or private entity pursuant to this 
        section shall not create a right or benefit, substantive or 
        procedural, to similar assistance or information for any other 
        governmental or private entity.''.
    (b) Technical and Conforming Amendment.--The table of contents in 
section 1(b) of the Homeland Security Act of 2002 (6 U.S.C. 101 note) 
is amended by inserting after the item relating to section 225 the 
following:

``Sec. 226. National cybersecurity and communications integration 
                            center.''.

SEC. 4. RECOMMENDATIONS REGARDING NEW AGREEMENTS.

    (a) In General.--Not later than 180 days after the date of 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall submit recommendations on 
how to expedite the implementation of information-sharing agreements 
for cybersecurity purposes between the Center and non-Federal entities 
(referred to in this section as ``cybersecurity information-sharing 
agreements'') to--
            (1) the Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental 
        Affairs and the Committee on the Judiciary of the Senate; and
            (2) the Committee on Homeland Security and the Committee on 
        the Judiciary of the House of Representatives.
    (b) Contents.--In submitting recommendations under subsection (a), 
the Secretary shall--
            (1) address the development and utilization of a scalable 
        form that retains all privacy and other protections in 
        cybersecurity information-sharing agreements that are in effect 
        as of the date on which the Secretary submits the 
        recommendations, including Cooperative Research and Development 
        Agreements; and
            (2) include in the recommendations any additional 
        authorities or resources that may be needed to carry out the 
        implementation of any new cybersecurity information-sharing 
        agreements.

SEC. 5. ANNUAL REPORT.

    Not later than 1 year after the date of enactment of this Act, and 
every year thereafter for 3 years, the Secretary shall submit to the 
Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs and the 
Committee on the Judiciary of the Senate, the Committee on Homeland 
Security and the Committee on the Judiciary of the House of 
Representatives, and the Comptroller General of the United States a 
report on the Center, which shall include--
     (a) information on the Center, including--
            (1) an assessment of the capability and capacity of the 
        Center to carry out its cybersecurity mission under this Act;
            (2) the number of representatives from non-Federal entities 
        that are participating in the Center, including the number of 
        representatives from States, nonprofit organizations, and 
        private sector entities, respectively;
            (3) the number of requests from non-Federal entities to 
        participate in the Center and the response to such requests;
            (4) the average length of time taken to resolve requests 
        described in paragraph (3);
            (5) the identification of--
                    (A) any delay in resolving requests described in 
                paragraph (3) involving security clearance processing; 
                and
                    (B) the agency involved with a delay described in 
                subparagraph (A);
            (6) a description of any other obstacles or challenges to 
        resolving requests described in paragraph (3) and a summary of 
        the reasons for denials of any such requests;
            (7) the extent to which the Department is engaged in 
        information sharing with each critical infrastructure sector, 
        including--
                    (A) the extent to which each sector has 
                representatives at the Center;
                    (B) the extent to which owners and operators of 
                critical infrastructure in each critical infrastructure 
                sector participate in information sharing at the 
                Center; and
                    (C) the volume and range of activities with respect 
                to which the Secretary has collaborated with the sector 
                coordinating councils and the sector-specific agencies 
                to promote greater engagement with the Center; and
            (8) the policies and procedures established by the Center 
        to safeguard privacy and civil liberties.

SEC. 6. GAO REPORT.

    Not later than 2 years after the date of enactment of this Act, the 
Comptroller General of the United States shall submit to the Committee 
on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs of the Senate and the 
Committee on Homeland Security of the House of Representatives a report 
on the effectiveness of the Center in carrying out its cybersecurity 
mission.

SEC. 7. CYBER INCIDENT RESPONSE PLAN; CLEARANCES; BREACHES.

    (a) Cyber Incident Response Plan; Clearances.--Subtitle C of title 
II of the Homeland Security Act of 2002 (6 U.S.C. 141 et seq.), as 
amended by section 3, is amended by adding at the end the following:

``SEC. 227. CYBER INCIDENT RESPONSE PLAN.

    ``The Under Secretary appointed under section 103(a)(1)(H) shall, 
in coordination with appropriate Federal departments and agencies, 
State and local governments, sector coordinating councils, information 
sharing and analysis organizations (as defined in section 212(5)), 
owners and operators of critical infrastructure, and other appropriate 
entities and individuals, develop, regularly update, maintain, and 
exercise adaptable cyber incident response plans to address 
cybersecurity risks (as defined in section 226) to critical 
infrastructure.

``SEC. 228. CLEARANCES.

    ``The Secretary shall make available the process of application for 
security clearances under Executive Order 13549 (75 Fed. Reg. 162; 
relating to a classified national security information program) or any 
successor Executive Order to appropriate representatives of sector 
coordinating councils, sector information sharing and analysis 
organizations (as defined in section 212(5)), owners and operators of 
critical infrastructure, and any other person that the Secretary 
determines appropriate.''.
    (b) Breaches.--
            (1) Requirements.--The Director of the Office of Management 
        and Budget shall ensure that data breach notification policies 
        and guidelines are updated periodically and require--
                    (A) except as provided in paragraph (4), notice by 
                the affected agency to each committee of Congress 
                described in section 3544(c)(1) of title 44, United 
                States Code, the Committee on the Judiciary of the 
                Senate, and the Committee on Homeland Security and the 
                Committee on the Judiciary of the House of 
                Representatives, which shall--
                            (i) be provided expeditiously and not later 
                        than 30 days after the date on which the agency 
                        discovered the unauthorized acquisition or 
                        access; and
                            (ii) include--
                                    (I) information about the breach, 
                                including a summary of any information 
                                that the agency knows on the date on 
                                which notification is provided about 
                                how the breach occurred;
                                    (II) an estimate of the number of 
                                individuals affected by the breach, 
                                based on information that the agency 
                                knows on the date on which notification 
                                is provided, including an assessment of 
                                the risk of harm to affected 
                                individuals;
                                    (III) a description of any 
                                circumstances necessitating a delay in 
                                providing notice to affected 
                                individuals; and
                                    (IV) an estimate of whether and 
                                when the agency will provide notice to 
                                affected individuals; and
                    (B) notice by the affected agency to affected 
                individuals, pursuant to data breach notification 
                policies and guidelines, which shall be provided as 
                expeditiously as practicable and without unreasonable 
                delay after the agency discovers the unauthorized 
                acquisition or access.
            (2) National security; law enforcement; remediation.--The 
        Attorney General, the head of an element of the intelligence 
        community (as such term is defined under section 3(4) of the 
        National Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 3003(4)), or the 
        Secretary may delay the notice to affected individuals under 
        paragraph (1)(B) if the notice would disrupt a law enforcement 
        investigation, endanger national security, or hamper security 
        remediation actions.
            (3) OMB report.--During the first 2 years beginning after 
        the date of enactment of this Act, the Director of the Office 
        of Management and Budget shall, on an annual basis--
                    (A) assess agency implementation of data breach 
                notification policies and guidelines in aggregate; and
                    (B) include the assessment described in clause (i) 
                in the report required under section 3543(a)(8) of 
                title 44, United States Code.
            (4) Exception.--Any element of the intelligence community 
        (as such term is defined under section 3(4) of the National 
        Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 3003(4)) that is required to 
        provide notice under paragraph (1)(A) shall only provide such 
        notice to appropriate committees of Congress.
    (c) Rule of Construction.--Nothing in the amendment made by 
subsection (a) or in subsection (b)(1) shall be construed to alter any 
authority of a Federal agency or department.
    (d) Technical and Conforming Amendment.--The table of contents in 
section 1(b) of the Homeland Security Act of 2002 (6 U.S.C. 101 note), 
as amended by section 3, is amended by inserting after the item 
relating to section 226 the following:

``Sec. 227. Cyber incident response plan.
``Sec. 228. Clearances.''.

SEC. 8. RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.

    (a) Prohibition on New Regulatory Authority.--Nothing in this Act 
or the amendments made by this Act shall be construed to grant the 
Secretary any authority to promulgate regulations or set standards 
relating to the cybersecurity of private sector critical infrastructure 
that was not in effect on the day before the date of enactment of this 
Act.
    (b) Private Entities.--Nothing in this Act or the amendments made 
by this Act shall be construed to require any private entity--
            (1) to request assistance from the Secretary; or
            (2) that requested such assistance from the Secretary to 
        implement any measure or recommendation suggested by the 
        Secretary.

            Passed the Senate December 10, 2014.

            Attest:

                                                             Secretary.
113th CONGRESS

  2d Session

                                S. 2519

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 AN ACT

       To codify an existing operations center for cybersecurity.
