
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 3187 Introduced in House (IH)]

113th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                H. R. 3187

To appropriate such funds as may be necessary to ensure that members of 
the Armed Forces, including reserve components thereof, and supporting 
     civilian and contractor personnel continue to receive pay and 
allowances for active service performed when a Governmentwide shutdown 
                    occurs, and for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                           September 26, 2013

Ms. Sinema (for herself and Ms. Gabbard) introduced the following bill; 
which was referred to the Committee on Armed Services, and in addition 
to the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, for a period to 
      be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
consideration of such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the 
                          committee concerned

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
To appropriate such funds as may be necessary to ensure that members of 
the Armed Forces, including reserve components thereof, and supporting 
     civilian and contractor personnel continue to receive pay and 
allowances for active service performed when a Governmentwide shutdown 
                    occurs, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Military Pay Protection Act of 
2013''.

SEC. 2. EMERGENCY APPROPRIATION OF FUNDS TO PROVIDE PAY AND ALLOWANCES 
              FOR MEMBERS OF THE ARMED FORCES AND SUPPORTING CIVILIAN 
              AND CONTRACTOR PERSONNEL DURING GOVERNMENTWIDE SHUTDOWN.

    During a Governmentwide shutdown, the Secretary of the Treasury 
shall make available to the Secretary of Defense (and the Secretary of 
Homeland Security in the case of the Coast Guard), out of any amounts 
in the general fund of the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, such 
amounts as the Secretary of Defense (and the Secretary of Homeland 
Security in the case of the Coast Guard) determines to be necessary to 
continue to provide the following:
            (1) Pay and allowances (without interruption) to the 
        following:
                    (A) Members of the Army, Navy, Air Force, Marine 
                Corps, and Coast Guard, including reserve components 
                thereof, who perform active service during the 
                Governmentwide shutdown.
                    (B) At the discretion of the Secretary of Defense, 
                such civilian personnel of the Department of Defense 
                who are providing support to the members of the Armed 
                Forces described in paragraph (1) as the Secretary 
                considers appropriate.
                    (C) At the discretion of the Secretary of Defense, 
                such personnel of contractors of the Department of 
                Defense who are providing direct support to the members 
                of the Armed Forces described in paragraph (1) as the 
                Secretary considers appropriate.
            (2) Funding necessary to prevent interruptions or delays in 
        the performance of domestic disaster relief and recovery 
        operations during the Governmentwide shutdown.

SEC. 3. GOVERNMENTWIDE SHUTDOWN DEFINED.

    In this Act, the term ``Governmentwide shutdown'' means any portion 
of a fiscal year during which none of the appropriation bills for the 
fiscal year have become law and an Act or joint resolution making 
continuing appropriations for the fiscal year is not in effect.
                                 <all>
