
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 164 Introduced in House (IH)]

113th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                H. R. 164

 To amend title 10, United States Code, to permit veterans who have a 
  service-connected, permanent disability rated as total to travel on 
military aircraft in the same manner and to the same extent as retired 
          members of the Armed Forces entitled to such travel.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                            January 4, 2013

Mr. Bilirakis introduced the following bill; which was referred to the 
                      Committee on Armed Services

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
 To amend title 10, United States Code, to permit veterans who have a 
  service-connected, permanent disability rated as total to travel on 
military aircraft in the same manner and to the same extent as retired 
          members of the Armed Forces entitled to such travel.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. TRANSPORTATION ON MILITARY AIRCRAFT ON A SPACE-AVAILABLE 
              BASIS FOR DISABLED VETERANS WITH A SERVICE-CONNECTED, 
              PERMANENT DISABILITY RATED AS TOTAL.

    (a) Availability of Transportation.--Section 2641b of title 10, 
United States Code, as amended by section 622 of National Defense 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2013, is further amended--
            (1) by redesignating subsection (f) as subsection (g); and
            (2) by inserting after subsection (e) the following new 
        subsection (f):
    ``(f) Special Priority for Certain Disabled Veterans.--(1) The 
Secretary of Defense shall provide transportation on scheduled and 
unscheduled military flights within the continental United States and 
on scheduled overseas flights operated by the Air Mobility Command on a 
space-available basis for any veteran with a service-connected, 
permanent disability rated as total.
    ``(2) Notwithstanding subsection (d)(1), in establishing space-
available transportation priorities under the travel program, the 
Secretary shall provide transportation under paragraph (1) on the same 
basis as such transportation is provided to members of the armed forces 
entitled to retired or retainer pay.
    ``(3) The requirement to provide transportation on Department of 
Defense aircraft on a space-available basis on the priority basis 
described in paragraph (2) to veterans covered by this subsection 
applies whether or not the travel program is established under this 
section.
    ``(4) In this subsection, the terms `veteran' and `service-
connected' have the meanings given those terms in section 101 of title 
38.''.
    (b) Effective Date.--Subsection (f) of section 2641b of title 10, 
United States Code, as added by subsection (a), shall take effect at 
the end of the 90-day period beginning on the date of the enactment of 
this Act.
                                 <all>
