
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.J. Res. 126 Introduced in House (IH)]

113th CONGRESS
  2d Session
H. J. RES. 126

  Proposing an amendment to the Constitution of the United States to 
                     control entitlement spending.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                           September 18, 2014

 Mr. Crawford (for himself, Mr. Griffin of Arkansas, Mr. Meadows, Mr. 
Cotton, Mr. Scalise, Mrs. Noem, Mr. Graves of Georgia, Mr. Rodney Davis 
  of Illinois, Mr. Harris, Mr. Collins of New York, Mr. Mulvaney, Mr. 
 Ross, Mr. Schock, Mrs. Wagner, Mr. McHenry, Mr. Calvert, Mr. Cramer, 
 Mr. Culberson, Mr. Aderholt, and Mr. Yoder) introduced the following 
 joint resolution; which was referred to the Committee on the Judiciary

_______________________________________________________________________

                            JOINT RESOLUTION


 
  Proposing an amendment to the Constitution of the United States to 
                     control entitlement spending.

    Resolved by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United 
States of America in Congress assembled   (two-thirds of each House 
concurring therein), That the following article is proposed as an 
amendment to the Constitution of the United States, which shall be 
valid to all intents and purposes as part of the Constitution when 
ratified by the legislatures of three-fourths of the several States 
within seven years after the date of its submission for ratification:

                              ``Article--

    ``Section 1. No bill that increases the amount spent under an 
entitlement program or creates a new entitlement program shall become 
law unless the bill is approved by a two-thirds majority of each House 
or provides that such increase or program shall terminate after not 
more than seven years.
    ``Section 2. No bill that increases the amount spent under an 
entitlement program or creates a new entitlement program shall become 
law unless the bill is spending neutral or creates a net savings to the 
Government. After enactment, if the bill is not spending neutral or 
does not create a net savings to the Government when averaged over the 
previous two fiscal years, the President shall implement spending 
reductions within the program, which Congress should prescribe, 
sufficient to offset the actual increase in spending by the end of the 
fiscal year so that it is either spending neutral or creates a net 
savings to the Government.
    ``Section 3. For purposes of this article, the term `entitlement 
program' means a program under which the United States is obligated to 
make such payments to any person or government who meets the 
requirements established by that law regardless of whether the funding 
for such program is provided for in advance by an appropriation Act.
    ``Section 4. Congress shall have the power to enforce and implement 
this article by appropriate legislation.''.
                                 <all>
