
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 1016 Introduced in House (IH)]

113th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                H. R. 1016

 To amend title 39, United States Code, to authorize the United States 
Postal Service to sell, at fair market value, any post office building 
             subject to relocation, and for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                             March 6, 2013

 Mr. Peters of California (for himself, Mrs. Davis of California, and 
 Mr. Vargas) introduced the following bill; which was referred to the 
              Committee on Oversight and Government Reform

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
 To amend title 39, United States Code, to authorize the United States 
Postal Service to sell, at fair market value, any post office building 
             subject to relocation, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Community Post Office Relocation 
Act''.

SEC. 2. SALE OF POST OFFICE BUILDINGS SUBJECT TO RELOCATION.

    (a) In General.--Chapter 4 of title 39, United States Code, is 
amended by adding at the end the following:
``Sec. 417. Authority to sell buildings containing post offices subject 
              to relocation
    ``(a) In addition to the authority provided under section 401(5), 
the Postal Service may sell, at fair market value, to an eligible buyer 
fee simple title to a covered post office building.
    ``(b)(1) Beginning on the date on which the Postal Service makes an 
announcement, as described in paragraph (2), that a covered post office 
building is for sale, an eligible buyer shall have 30 days to make an 
offer to the Postal Service for the purchase of such building.
    ``(2) The announcement under paragraph (1) shall be posted 
prominently in a publicly accessible space in the covered post office 
building subject to sale.
    ``(c)(1) The Postal Service shall enter into negotiations for the 
sale of such building with the eligible buyer that submits the first 
offer, as determined by postmark date, during such 30-day period. If 
such negotiations fail, then the Postal Service shall enter into 
negotiations for sale with each subsequent eligible buyer, as 
determined by postmark date, that submits an offer during such 30-day 
period until a sale is made or until all such eligible buyers are 
exhausted.
    ``(2) If an offer under paragraph (1) is for the fair market value 
of such building, and all other relevant conditions have been met with 
respect to making a successful sale within 45 days after the postmark 
date of such offer, the Postal Service shall sell such building to such 
buyer.
    ``(3) The fair market value of a post office building sold by the 
Postal Service under this section shall be determined by an independent 
professional appraiser, licensed within the State in which such 
building is located, mutually agreed upon by the Postal Service and the 
eligible buyer.
    ``(d)(1) After the sale of a covered post office building to an 
eligible buyer under this section, the Postal Service may lease, at 
fair market value, such building from such buyer for purposes of 
operating a post office in such building.
    ``(2) If the Postal Service does not require all of the space in 
such building while operating a post office pursuant to paragraph (1), 
the eligible buyer may use the remaining space for any purpose 
permitted under Federal, State, or local law or regulation.
    ``(e) If an eligible buyer makes a covered post office purchased 
under this section available for sale, the Postal Service shall have 
the right of first refusal to purchase such building at fair market 
value or at the price of such purchase plus any improvements, whichever 
is less.
    ``(f) For purposes of this section--
            ``(1) the term `covered post office building' means a 
        building owned by the Postal Service that contains a post 
        office subject to relocation (as that term is described in 
        section 241.4 of title 39, Code of Federal Regulations); and
            ``(2) the term `eligible buyer' means a private 
        organization--
                    ``(A) that is described in section 501(c)(3) of the 
                Internal Revenue Code of 1986 and exempt from taxation 
                under section 501(a) of such Code;
                    ``(B) that operates primarily within the geographic 
                area served by a covered post office building subject 
                to sale under this section; and
                    ``(C) that has been in operation within such area 
                for at least 5 years prior to the date on which the 
                announcement of the sale of the building is made (as 
                described in subsection (b)(1)).''.
    (b) Technical Amendment.--The table of sections of chapter 4 of 
title 39, United States Code, is amended by adding after the item 
relating to section 416 the following new item:

``417. Authority to sell buildings containing post offices subject to 
                            relocation.''.
                                 <all>
