
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[S. 1119 Introduced in Senate (IS)]

113th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                S. 1119

 To amend the Public Health Service Act to provide for integration of 
mental health services and mental health treatment outreach teams, and 
                          for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                              June 7, 2013

  Ms. Collins (for herself and Ms. Mikulski) introduced the following 
  bill; which was read twice and referred to the Committee on Health, 
                     Education, Labor, and Pensions

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
 To amend the Public Health Service Act to provide for integration of 
mental health services and mental health treatment outreach teams, and 
                          for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Positive Aging Act of 2013''.

SEC. 2. DEMONSTRATION PROJECTS TO SUPPORT INTEGRATION OF MENTAL HEALTH 
              SERVICES IN PRIMARY CARE SETTINGS.

    Subpart 3 of part B of title V of the Public Health Service Act (42 
U.S.C. 290bb-31 et seq.) is amended--
            (1) in section 520(b)--
                    (A) in paragraph (14), by striking ``and'' after 
                the semicolon;
                    (B) in paragraph (15), by striking the period at 
                the end and inserting ``; and''; and
                    (C) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(16) conduct the demonstration projects specified in 
        section 520L.''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following:

``SEC. 520L. PROJECTS TO DEMONSTRATE INTEGRATION OF MENTAL HEALTH 
              SERVICES IN PRIMARY CARE SETTINGS.

    ``(a) In General.--The Secretary, acting through the Director of 
the Center for Mental Health Services, shall award grants to public and 
private nonprofit entities for projects to demonstrate ways of 
integrating mental health services for older adults into primary care 
settings, such as health centers receiving a grant under section 330 
(or determined by the Secretary to meet the requirements for receiving 
such a grant), other federally qualified health centers, primary care 
clinics, and private practice sites.
    ``(b) Requirements.--In order to be eligible for a grant under this 
section, the project to be carried out by the entity shall provide for 
collaborative care within a primary care setting, provided by licensed 
mental health professionals with appropriate training and experience in 
the treatment of older adults, in which screening, assessment, and 
intervention services are combined into an integrated service delivery 
model, including--
            ``(1) screening services by a mental health professional 
        with at least a masters degree in an appropriate field of 
        training;
            ``(2) referrals for necessary prevention, intervention, 
        follow-up care, consultations, and care planning oversight for 
        mental health and other service needs, as indicated; and
            ``(3) adoption and implementation of evidence-based 
        intervention and treatment protocols (to the extent such 
        protocols are available) for mental disorders prevalent in 
        older adults including, but not limited to, mood and anxiety 
        disorders, dementias of all kinds (including the behavioral and 
        psychological symptoms of dementia), psychotic disorders, and 
        substance-related disorders.
    ``(c) Considerations in Awarding Grants.--In awarding grants under 
this section, the Secretary, to the extent feasible, shall ensure 
that--
            ``(1) projects are funded in a variety of geographic areas, 
        including urban and rural areas; and
            ``(2) a variety of populations, including racial and ethnic 
        minorities and low-income populations, are served by projects 
        funded under this section.
    ``(d) Duration.--A project may receive funding pursuant to a grant 
under this section for a period of up to 3 years, with an extension 
period of 2 additional years at the discretion of the Secretary.
    ``(e) Application.--To be eligible to receive a grant under this 
section, a public or private nonprofit entity shall--
            ``(1) submit an application to the Secretary (in such form, 
        containing such information, and at such time as the Secretary 
        may specify); and
            ``(2) agree to report to the Secretary standardized 
        clinical and behavioral data and other performance data 
        necessary to evaluate patient outcomes and to facilitate 
        evaluations across participating projects.
    ``(f) Evaluation.--Not later than July 31 of the second calendar 
year after the date of enactment of this section, and July 31 of every 
year thereafter, the Secretary shall submit to Congress a report 
evaluating the projects receiving awards under this section for the 
year involved.
    ``(g) Supplement, Not Supplant.--Funds made available under this 
section shall supplement, and not supplant, other Federal, State, or 
local funds available to an entity to carry out activities described in 
this section.
    ``(h) Authorization of Appropriations.--There are authorized to be 
appropriated such sums as may be necessary to carry out this section 
for fiscal year 2014 and each fiscal year thereafter.''.

SEC. 3. GRANTS FOR COMMUNITY-BASED MENTAL HEALTH TREATMENT OUTREACH 
              TEAMS.

    Subpart 3 of part B of title V of the Public Health Service Act (42 
U.S.C. 290bb-31 et seq.), as amended by section 2, is further amended 
by adding at the end the following:

``SEC. 520M. GRANTS FOR COMMUNITY-BASED MENTAL HEALTH TREATMENT 
              OUTREACH TEAMS.

    ``(a) In General.--The Secretary, acting through the Director of 
the Center for Mental Health Services, shall award grants to public or 
private nonprofit entities that are community-based providers of 
geriatric mental health services, to support the establishment and 
maintenance by such entities of interdisciplinary geriatric mental 
health outreach teams in community settings where older adults reside 
or receive social services. Entities eligible for such grants include--
            ``(1) mental health service providers of a State or local 
        government;
            ``(2) outpatient programs of private, nonprofit hospitals;
            ``(3) community mental health centers meeting the criteria 
        specified in section 1913(c); and
            ``(4) other community-based providers of mental health 
        services.
    ``(b) Requirements.--To be eligible to receive a grant under this 
section, an entity shall--
            ``(1) adopt and implement, for use by its mental health 
        outreach team, evidence-based intervention and treatment 
        protocols (to the extent such protocols are available) for 
        mental disorders prevalent in older adults including, but not 
        limited to, mood and anxiety disorders, dementias of all kinds 
        (including the behavioral and psychological symptoms of 
        dementia), psychotic disorders, and substance-related 
        disorders, relying to the greatest extent feasible on protocols 
        that have been developed--
                    ``(A) by or under the auspices of the Secretary; or
                    ``(B) by academicians;
            ``(2) provide screening for mental disorders, diagnostic 
        services, referrals for treatment, and case management and 
        coordination through such teams; and
            ``(3) coordinate and integrate the services provided by 
        such team with the services of social service, mental health, 
        and medical providers at the site or sites where the team is 
        based in order to--
                    ``(A) improve patient outcomes; and
                    ``(B) to assure, to the maximum extent feasible, 
                the continuing independence of older adults who are 
                residing in the community.
    ``(c) Cooperative Arrangements With Sites Serving as Bases for 
Outreach.--An entity receiving a grant under this section may enter 
into an agreement with a person operating a site at which a geriatric 
mental health outreach team of the entity is based, including--
            ``(1) senior centers;
            ``(2) adult day care programs;
            ``(3) assisted living facilities; and
            ``(4) recipients of grants to provide services to older 
        adults under the Older Americans Act of 1965, under which such 
        person provides (and is reimbursed by the entity, out of funds 
        received under the grant, for) any supportive services, such as 
        transportation and administrative support, that such person 
        provides to an outreach team of such entity.
    ``(d) Considerations in Awarding Grants.--In awarding grants under 
this section, the Secretary, to the extent feasible, shall ensure 
that--
            ``(1) projects are funded in a variety of geographic areas, 
        including urban and rural areas; and
            ``(2) a variety of populations, including racial and ethnic 
        minorities and low-income populations, are served by projects 
        funded under this section.
    ``(e) Application.--To be eligible to receive a grant under this 
section, an entity shall--
            ``(1) submit an application to the Secretary (in such form, 
        containing such information, at such time as the Secretary may 
        specify); and
            ``(2) agree to report to the Secretary standardized 
        clinical and behavioral data and other performance data 
        necessary to evaluate patient outcomes and to facilitate 
        evaluations across participating projects.
    ``(f) Coordination.--The Secretary shall provide for appropriate 
coordination of programs and activities receiving funds pursuant to a 
grant under this section with programs and activities receiving funds 
pursuant to grants under section 520L and sections 381, 422, and 423 of 
the Older Americans Act of 1965.
    ``(g) Evaluation.--Not later than July 31 of the second calendar 
year after the date of enactment of this section, and July 31 of every 
year thereafter, the Secretary shall submit to Congress a report 
evaluating the projects receiving awards under this section for such 
year.
    ``(h) Supplement, Not Supplant.--Funds made available under this 
section shall supplement, and not supplant, other Federal, State, or 
local funds available to an entity to carry out activities described in 
this section.
    ``(i) Authorization of Appropriations.--There are authorized to be 
appropriated such sums as may be necessary to carry out this section 
for fiscal year 2014 and each fiscal year thereafter.''.

SEC. 4. DESIGNATION OF DEPUTY DIRECTOR FOR OLDER ADULT MENTAL HEALTH 
              SERVICES IN CENTER FOR MENTAL HEALTH SERVICES.

    Section 520 of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 290bb-31) 
is amended--
            (1) by redesignating subsection (c) as subsection (d); and
            (2) by inserting after subsection (b) the following:
    ``(c) Deputy Director for Older Adult Mental Health Services in 
Center for Mental Health Services.--The Director, after consultation 
with the Administrator, shall designate a Deputy Director for Older 
Adult Mental Health Services, who shall be responsible for the 
development and implementation of initiatives of the Center to address 
the mental health needs of older adults. Such initiatives shall 
include--
            ``(1) research on prevention and identification of mental 
        disorders in the older adult population;
            ``(2) innovative demonstration projects for the delivery of 
        community-based mental health services for older adults;
            ``(3) support for the development and dissemination of 
        evidence-based practice models, including models to address 
        substance-related disorders in older adults; and
            ``(4) development of model training programs for mental 
        health professionals and caregivers serving older adults.''.

SEC. 5. MEMBERSHIP OF ADVISORY COUNCIL FOR THE CENTER FOR MENTAL HEALTH 
              SERVICES.

    Section 502(b)(3) of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 
290aa-1(b)(3)) is amended by adding at the end the following:
                    ``(C) In the case of the advisory council for the 
                Center for Mental Health Services, the members 
                appointed pursuant to subparagraphs (A) and (B) shall 
                include representatives of older adults or their 
                families, and professionals with an expertise in 
                geriatric mental health.''.

SEC. 6. PROJECTS OF NATIONAL SIGNIFICANCE TARGETING SUBSTANCE ABUSE IN 
              OLDER ADULTS.

    Section 509(b)(2) of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 
290bb-2(b)(2)) is amended by inserting before the period the following: 
``, and to providing treatment for older adults with substance-related 
disorders''.

SEC. 7. CRITERIA FOR STATE PLANS UNDER COMMUNITY MENTAL HEALTH SERVICES 
              BLOCK GRANTS.

    (a) In General.--Section 1912(b)(4) of the Public Health Service 
Act (42 U.S.C. 300x-2(b)(4)) is amended to read as follows:
            ``(4) Targeted services to older individuals, individuals 
        who are homeless, and individuals living in rural areas.--The 
        plan describes the State's outreach to and services for older 
        individuals, individuals who are homeless, and individuals 
        living in rural areas, and how community-based services will be 
        provided to these individuals.''.
    (b) Effective Date.--The amendment made by subsection (a) shall 
apply to State plans submitted on or after the date that is 180 days 
after the date of enactment of this Act.
                                 <all>
