
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 1769 Introduced in House (IH)]

113th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                H. R. 1769

   To improve energy infrastructure resilience through federal water 
             resource investments, and for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                             April 26, 2013

 Mr. Richmond introduced the following bill; which was referred to the 
             Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
   To improve energy infrastructure resilience through federal water 
             resource investments, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Recognizing the National Benefits of 
Flood Protection Act of 2013''.

SEC. 2. CALCULATION OF BENEFITS AND COSTS FOR FLOOD DAMAGE REDUCTION 
              AND HURRICANE AND STORM DAMAGE REDUCTION PROJECTS.

    (a) Calculation of Benefits and Costs for Flood Damage Reduction 
and Hurricane and Storm Damage Reduction Projects.--A feasibility study 
for a project for flood damage reduction or hurricane and storm damage 
reduction shall include, as part of the calculation of benefits and 
costs--
            (1) a calculation of the anticipated reduction in flood or 
        hurricane damage to public and private property and 
        infrastructure resulting from the completion of the proposed 
        project;
            (2) a calculation of the anticipated direct and indirect 
        economic benefits resulting from the completion of the proposed 
        project, including such benefits from any potential reductions 
        in national and regional economic volatility, disruptions, and 
        losses; and
            (3) a calculation of the anticipated benefits to public 
        safety, including protection of evacuation routes, resulting 
        from the completion of the proposed project.
    (b) Applicability.--This section shall apply to any feasibility 
study for a project for flood damage reduction or hurricane and storm 
damage reduction that has not been completed before the date of 
enactment of this Act.

SEC. 3. FLOOD DAMAGE REDUCTION AND HURRICANE AND STORM DAMAGE REDUCTION 
              PROJECT REVIEWS.

    (a) In General.--The non-Federal interest for a project for flood 
damage reduction or hurricane and storm damage reduction may submit to 
the Secretary a request for a review under this section for the project 
if--
            (1) the Secretary determines that the project is not 
        feasible;
            (2) the Chief of Engineers issues an unfavorable report for 
        the project; or
            (3) the Secretary identifies the feasibility study for the 
        project as inactive.
    (b) Review Panels.--
            (1) Establishment.--The Secretary shall establish, for each 
        division of the Corps of Engineers, a review panel to conduct 
        reviews and make determinations under this section.
            (2) Membership.--
                    (A) In general.--The Secretary shall appoint to 
                each review panel 5 members--
                            (i) each of whom shall have relevant 
                        experience in flood damage reduction or 
                        hurricane and storm damage reduction in the 
                        geographic area represented by the division for 
                        which the review panel is established; and
                            (ii) at least one of whom shall have 
                        education or experience in the field of 
                        economics.
                    (B) Limitation.--Not more than 2 members of each 
                review panel may be employees (including uniformed 
                members) or contractors of the Corps of Engineers.
                    (C) Term.--Each member shall be appointed to a 
                review panel for a term of 4 years.
            (3) Deadline.--The Secretary shall establish a review panel 
        for a division not later than 60 days after the first request 
        for a review under this section is submitted for a project 
        within the division.
            (4) Duties.--A review panel established under this section 
        shall, with respect to each request for a review submitted to 
        the Secretary for a project within the division for which the 
        review panel is established--
                    (A) conduct a review of--
                            (i) the feasibility study for the project;
                            (ii) the adequacy and acceptability of the 
                        economic, engineering, and environmental 
                        methods, models, and analyses used by the 
                        Secretary in the preparation of the feasibility 
                        study for the project;
                            (iii) the public written and oral comments 
                        provided to the Secretary for the project; and
                            (iv) any additional information submitted 
                        by the non-Federal interest as part of the 
                        request for a review; and
                    (B) submit to the Secretary a final report 
                containing--
                            (i) an economic, engineering, and 
                        environmental analysis of the feasibility study 
                        for the project, including an assessment of the 
                        adequacy and acceptability of the economic, 
                        engineering, and environmental methods, models, 
                        and analyses used by the Secretary in the 
                        preparation of the feasibility study; and
                            (ii) a determination of the feasibility of 
                        the project, taking into account calculations 
                        of costs and benefits described in section 
                        2(a).
    (c) Effect of Review Panel Determination.--If a review panel 
determines that a project for which a request for a review has been 
submitted is feasible, the Chief of Engineers shall issue a favorable 
report for the project.
    (d) Procedures.--Not later than 60 days after the date of enactment 
of this Act, the Secretary shall establish procedures for reviews under 
this section.

SEC. 4. PRIORITY FOR FEASIBILITY STUDIES.

    In carrying out feasibility studies for projects for flood damage 
reduction and hurricane and storm damage reduction each year, the 
Secretary shall give priority to the completion of such studies for 
projects in areas that have experienced flooding or hurricane damage 
during the preceding 10 years.

SEC. 5. REPORT TO CONGRESS.

    Not later than 180 days after the date of enactment of this Act, 
the Secretary shall submit to the Committees on Homeland Security and 
Transportation and Infrastructure of the House of Representatives an 
analysis of the connection between Corps of Engineers projects for 
flood damage reduction, hurricane and storm damage reduction, and 
navigation and the protection of energy infrastructure.

SEC. 6. SECRETARY DEFINED.

    In this Act, the term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary of the 
Army, acting through the Chief of Engineers.

SEC. 7. APPLICABILITY.

    This Act shall not apply to any project primarily designed for the 
purposes of navigational improvements on the Nation's system of inland 
waterways.
                                 <all>
