
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H. Res. 465 Engrossed in House (EH)]

H. Res. 465

                In the House of Representatives, U. S.,

                                                      January 28, 2014.
    Resolved, That upon adoption of this resolution it shall be in order to 
consider in the House the bill (H.R. 7) to prohibit taxpayer funded abortions. 
All points of order against consideration of the bill are waived. An amendment 
in the nature of a substitute consisting of the text of Rules Committee Print 
113-33 shall be considered as adopted. The bill, as amended, shall be considered 
as read. All points of order against provisions in the bill, as amended, are 
waived. The previous question shall be considered as ordered on the bill, as 
amended, and on any further amendment thereto, to final passage without 
intervening motion except: (1) one hour of debate equally divided among and 
controlled by the chair and ranking minority member of the Committee on the 
Judiciary, the chair and ranking minority member of the Committee on Ways and 
Means, and the chair and ranking minority member of the Committee on Energy and 
Commerce; and (2) one motion to recommit with or without instructions.
    Sec. 2.  Upon adoption of this resolution it shall be in order to consider 
the conference report to accompany the bill (H.R. 2642) to provide for the 
reform and continuation of agricultural and other programs of the Department of 
Agriculture through fiscal year 2018, and for other purposes. All points of 
order against the conference report and against its consideration are waived. 
The conference report shall be considered as read. The previous question shall 
be considered as ordered on the conference report to its adoption without 
intervening motion except: (1) one hour of debate; and (2) one motion to 
recommit if applicable.
            Attest:

                                                                          Clerk.
