
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H. Res. 585 Engrossed in House (EH)]

H. Res. 585

                In the House of Representatives, U. S.,

                                                          May 20, 2014.
    Resolved, That at any time after adoption of this resolution the Speaker 
may, pursuant to clause 2(b) of rule XVIII, declare the House resolved into the 
Committee of the Whole House on the state of the Union for consideration of the 
bill (H.R. 4660) making appropriations for the Departments of Commerce and 
Justice, Science, and Related Agencies for the fiscal year ending September 30, 
2015, and for other purposes. The first reading of the bill shall be dispensed 
with. All points of order against consideration of the bill are waived. General 
debate shall be confined to the bill and shall not exceed one hour equally 
divided and controlled by the chair and ranking minority member of the Committee 
on Appropriations. After general debate the bill shall be considered for 
amendment under the five-minute rule. Points of order against provisions in the 
bill for failure to comply with clause 2 of rule XXI are waived. During 
consideration of the bill for amendment, the chair of the Committee of the Whole 
may accord priority in recognition on the basis of whether the Member offering 
an amendment has caused it to be printed in the portion of the Congressional 
Record designated for that purpose in clause 8 of rule XVIII. Amendments so 
printed shall be considered as read. When the committee rises and reports the 
bill back to the House with a recommendation that the bill do pass, the previous 
question shall be considered as ordered on the bill and amendments thereto to 
final passage without intervening motion except one motion to recommit with or 
without instructions.
    Sec. 2.  At any time after adoption of this resolution the Speaker may, 
pursuant to clause 2(b) of rule XVIII, declare the House resolved into the 
Committee of the Whole House on the state of the Union for consideration of the 
bill (H.R. 4435) to authorize appropriations for fiscal year 2015 for military 
activities of the Department of Defense and for military construction, to 
prescribe military personnel strengths for such fiscal year, and for other 
purposes. The first reading of the bill shall be dispensed with. All points of 
order against consideration of the bill are waived. General debate shall be 
confined to the bill and shall not exceed one hour equally divided and 
controlled by the chair and ranking minority member of the Committee on Armed 
Services. After general debate the bill shall be considered for amendment under 
the five-minute rule. In lieu of the amendment in the nature of a substitute 
recommended by the Committee on Armed Services now printed in the bill, an 
amendment in the nature of a substitute consisting of the text of Rules 
Committee Print 113-44 shall be considered as adopted in the House and in the 
Committee of the Whole. The bill, as amended, shall be considered as the 
original bill for the purpose of further amendment under the five-minute rule 
and shall be considered as read. All points of order against provisions in the 
bill, as amended, are waived. No further amendment to the bill, as amended, 
shall be in order except those printed in the report of the Committee on Rules 
accompanying this resolution. Each such further amendment may be offered only in 
the order printed in the report, may be offered only by a Member designated in 
the report, shall be considered as read, shall be debatable for the time 
specified in the report equally divided and controlled by the proponent and an 
opponent, shall not be subject to amendment, and shall not be subject to a 
demand for division of the question in the House or in the Committee of the 
Whole. All points of order against such further amendments are waived. After 
disposition of the further amendments printed in the report of the Committee on 
Rules, the Committee of the Whole shall rise without motion. No further 
consideration of the bill shall be in order except pursuant to a subsequent 
order of the House.
            Attest:

                                                                          Clerk.
