
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 5500 Introduced in House (IH)]

113th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                H. R. 5500

   To amend title 38, United States Code, to protect employment and 
        training services for veterans, and for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                           September 17, 2014

 Mr. Fitzpatrick introduced the following bill; which was referred to 
                   the Committee on Veterans' Affairs

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
   To amend title 38, United States Code, to protect employment and 
        training services for veterans, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Protect Veterans Employment and 
Training Services Act of 2014''.

SEC. 2. PROTECTION OF EMPLOYMENT AND TRAINING SERVICES FOR VETERANS.

    (a) Disabled Veterans' Outreach Program.--Section 4103A of title 
38, United States Code, is amended--
            (1) in subsection (a), by adding at the end the following 
        new paragraphs:
    ``(4) If a disabled veterans' outreach program specialist is not 
able to assist all eligible veterans seeking his or her assistance 
under this chapter, the Secretary may establish an order of priority 
for the furnishing of such assistance that is consistent with paragraph 
(1) of this subsection and section 4102 of this title.
    ``(5) A disabled veterans' outreach program specialist may perform 
an initial intake and assessment of an individual under this chapter in 
order to--
            ``(A) determine whether the individual is a special 
        disabled veteran, another disabled veteran, or another eligible 
        veteran;
            ``(B) administer the order of priority set forth in 
        paragraph (1) and any order of priority established under 
        paragraph (4); and
            ``(C) assess the needs of the individual, including whether 
        the individual needs intensive services.''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following new subsection:
    ``(e) Limitation.--The Secretary may not impose any restriction on 
the duties that a disabled veterans' outreach program specialist may 
perform or on the individuals whom a disabled veterans' outreach 
program specialist may assist other than those specifically provided 
for in this chapter.''.
    (b) Local Veterans' Employment Representatives.--Section 4104 of 
title 38, United States Code, is amended--
            (1) in subsection (b)--
                    (A) by redesignating paragraphs (1) and (2) as 
                subparagraphs (A) and (B), respectively;
                    (B) in the matter before subparagraph (A), as 
                redesignated by subparagraph (A) of this paragraph, by 
                inserting ``(1)'' before ``As principal duties'';
                    (C) by adding at the end the following new 
                paragraphs:
    ``(2) In addition to the principal duties required by paragraph 
(1), a local veterans' employment representative may furnish 
employment, training, and placement services directly to eligible 
veterans and eligible persons.
    ``(3) Each local veterans' employment representative shall spend a 
majority of his or her time as a local veterans' employment 
representative carrying out the principal duties set forth in 
subsection (b).''; and
                    (D) in the heading, by striking ``Principal'';
            (2) by redesignating subsection (f) as subsection (g); and
            (3) by inserting after subsection (e) the following new 
        subsection (f):
    ``(f) Limitation.--The Secretary may not impose any restriction on 
the duties that a local veterans' employment representative may perform 
or on the individuals whom a local veterans' employment representative 
may assist other than those specifically provided for in this 
chapter.''.
                                 <all>
