
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[S. Res. 44 Introduced in Senate (IS)]

113th CONGRESS
  1st Session
S. RES. 44

  Authorizing expenditures by the Committee on Banking, Housing, and 
                             Urban Affairs.


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                           February 26, 2013

 Mr. Johnson of South Dakota, from the Committee on Banking, Housing, 
 and Urban Affairs, reported the following original resolution; which 
       was referred to the Committee on Rules and Administration

_______________________________________________________________________

                               RESOLUTION


 
  Authorizing expenditures by the Committee on Banking, Housing, and 
                             Urban Affairs.

    Resolved, That, in carrying out its powers, duties, and functions 
under the Standing Rules of the Senate, in accordance with its 
jurisdiction under rule XXV of such rules, including holding hearings, 
reporting such hearings, and making investigations as authorized by 
paragraphs 1 and 8 of rule XXVI of the Standing Rules of the Senate, 
the Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs is authorized from 
March 1, 2013, through September 30, 2013, in its discretion (1) to 
make expenditures from the contingent fund of the Senate, (2) to employ 
personnel, and (3) with the prior consent of the Government department 
or agency concerned and the Committee on Rules and Administration, to 
use on a reimbursable or non-reimbursable basis the services of 
personnel of any such department or agency.
    Sec. 2. (a) The expenses of the committee for the period March 1, 
2013, through September 30, 2013, under this resolution shall not 
exceed $3,787,685 of which amount (1) not to exceed $10,267 may be 
expended for the procurement of the services of individual consultants, 
or organizations thereof (as authorized by section 202(i) of the 
Legislative Reorganization Act of 1946, as amended), and (2) not to 
exceed $616 may be expended for the training of the professional staff 
of such committee (under procedures specified by section 202(j) of the 
Legislative Reorganization Act of 1946).
    Sec. 3.  Expenses of the committee under this resolution shall be 
paid from the contingent fund of the Senate upon vouchers approved by 
the Chairman of the committee, except that vouchers shall not be 
required (1) for the disbursement of salaries of employees paid at an 
annual rate, or (2) for the payment of telecommunications provided by 
the Office of the Sergeant at Arms and Doorkeeper, United States 
Senate, or (3) for the payment of stationery supplies purchased through 
the Keeper of the Stationery, United States Senate, or (4) for payments 
to the Postmaster, United States Senate, or (5) for the payment of 
metered charges on copying equipment provided by the Office of the 
Sergeant at Arms and Doorkeeper, United States Senate, or (6) for the 
payment of Senate Recording and Photographic Services, or (7) for 
payment of franked and mass mail costs by the Sergeant at Arms and 
Doorkeeper, United States Senate.
    Sec. 4.  There are authorized such sums as may be necessary for 
agency contributions related to the compensation of employees of the 
committee from March 1, 2013, through September 30, 2013, to be paid 
from the Appropriations account for ``Expenses of Inquiries and 
Investigations''.
                                 <all>
