
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 5885 Introduced in House (IH)]

113th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                H. R. 5885

 To amend the Pribilof Islands Transition Act to require the Secretary 
    of Commerce to provide notice of certification that no further 
 corrective action is required at sites and operable units covered by 
the Pribilof Islands Environmental Restoration agreement, and for other 
                               purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                           December 11, 2014

 Mr. Young of Alaska introduced the following bill; which was referred 
                 to the Committee on Natural Resources

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
 To amend the Pribilof Islands Transition Act to require the Secretary 
    of Commerce to provide notice of certification that no further 
 corrective action is required at sites and operable units covered by 
the Pribilof Islands Environmental Restoration agreement, and for other 
                               purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Pribilof Islands Transition Act 
Amendments of 2014''.

SEC. 2. REQUIREMENT OF NOTICE REGARDING CERTIFICATION UNDER PRIBILOF 
              ISLANDS TRANSITION ACT.

    (a) Lands.--Section 205 of the Fur Seal Act of 1966 (16 U.S.C. 
1165) is amended--
            (1) in subsection (f)--
                    (A) by designating the text as paragraph (1); and
                    (B) by adding at the end the following:
    ``(2) In addition to the authority in paragraph (1), the Secretary 
may transfer or exchange land or interests therein on the Pribilof 
Islands to the village corporations identified in section 105(c), in 
accordance with section 22(f) of the Alaska Native Claims Settlement 
Act (43 U.S.C. 1621) as necessary or appropriate to facilitate the 
transfer of lands and related improvements not specified for transfer 
in the document entitled `Transfer of Property on the Pribilof Islands: 
Descriptions, Terms and Conditions'.''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following:
    ``(g)(1) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the village 
corporations identified in section 105(c) shall have a first priority 
right to acquire any Federal land on their respective islands (and 
related improvements on such land) that is not specified for transfer 
in the document entitled `Transfer of Property on the Pribilof Islands: 
Descriptions, Terms and Conditions' and that, after October 31, 1983--
            ``(A) ceases to be actually used by the Federal Government 
        in connection with the administration of any Federal 
        installation; or
            ``(B) is in excess of the smallest practicable tract, as 
        determined by the Secretary or the Secretary of the department 
        in which the Coast Guard is operating, enclosing land actually 
        used in connection with the administration of any Federal 
        installation, as described in section 3(e) of the Alaska Native 
        Claims Settlement Act (43 U.S.C. 1602(e)).
    ``(2) Not later than 30 days after determining that Federal land 
meets either of the criteria specified in subparagraphs (A) and (B) of 
paragraph (1), the Secretary shall notify the relevant village 
corporation of that determination.
    ``(3) Not later than 90 days after receiving notification under 
paragraph (2), the relevant village corporation shall notify the 
Secretary of the corporation's intent to exercise the priority right to 
acquire property authorized under paragraph (1) with respect to the 
property.''.
    (b) Notice of Certification.--Section 105 of the Pribilof Islands 
Transition Act (title I of Public Law 106-562; 16 U.S.C. 1161 note) is 
amended--
            (1) in subsection (a)(1), by striking ``The Secretary'' and 
        inserting ``Notwithstanding paragraph (2) and effective on the 
        date the Secretary publishes the notice of certification 
        required by subsection (b)(5), the Secretary'';
            (2) in subsection (b)--
                    (A) in paragraph (1)(A), by striking ``205'' and 
                inserting ``205(a)''; and
                    (B) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(5) Notice of certification.--The Secretary shall 
        promptly publish and submit to the Committee on Natural 
        Resources of the House of Representatives and the Committee on 
        Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate notice that 
        the certification described in paragraph (2) has been made.''; 
        and
            (3) in subsection (c)--
                    (A) in the matter preceding paragraph (1), by 
                striking ``makes the certification described in 
                subsection (b)(2)'' and inserting ``publishes the 
                notice of certification required by subsection 
                (b)(5)''; and
                    (B) in paragraph (1), by striking ``Section 205'' 
                and inserting ``Subsections (a), (b), (c), and (d) of 
                section 205''.
                                 <all>
