
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 2781 Introduced in House (IH)]

113th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                H. R. 2781

   To require the closure of expired grants accounts, and for other 
                               purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                             July 22, 2013

 Mr. Peters of California (for himself and Ms. Kuster) introduced the 
 following bill; which was referred to the Committee on Oversight and 
Government Reform, and in addition to the Committee on Appropriations, 
for a period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case 
for consideration of such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of 
                        the committee concerned

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
   To require the closure of expired grants accounts, and for other 
                               purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Stop Paying Something for Nothing 
Act of 2013''.

SEC. 2. EXPIRED GRANT ACCOUNT REPORT.

    (a) Report Required.--Beginning 6 months after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, not later than March 31 of each year, the 
Director of the Office of Management and Budget shall submit to the 
Chairs and Ranking Members of the Budget Committees a report that 
lists--
            (1) each grant account that is more than 3 months past the 
        grant end date; and
            (2) the total unexpended balance, the amount of obligated 
        but unexpended funds, and the amount of unobligated funds in 
        each such account for each agency.
    (b) Report Required To Be Published on OMB Website.--Not later than 
15 days after the report is submitted under subsection (a), the report 
shall be made public on the website of the Office of Management and 
Budget, in a searchable, human-readable, and machine readable format.
    (c) Return of Funds.--On the date that the report is submitted 
under this section, any unobligated amounts in an expired grant account 
not listed in the report are rescinded and shall be returned to the 
general fund of the Treasury.

SEC. 3. ACCOUNT CLOSING PROCEDURES.

    (a) In General.--
            (1) Closure.--Not later than 4 months after the date on 
        which a grant account is published under section 2(b), the head 
        of the relevant agency shall close such grant account in the 
        Payment Management System if the final report required by OMB 
        Circular No. A-110 was filed more than 36 months before such 
        date.
            (2) Return of funds.--On the date that such grant account 
        is closed, the unobligated amounts in such grant account (if 
        any) are rescinded and shall be returned to the general fund of 
        the Treasury.
    (b) Payment Management System.--The head of the relevant agency 
shall close any grant account in the Payment Management System that has 
no unexpended balance remaining for the previous six months and, not 
later than June 15 of each year, submit to the Chairs and Ranking 
Members of the Budget Committees a report that lists each account 
closed pursuant to this subsection.
    (c) Automated Standard Application for Payments System.--The 
Secretary of the Treasury shall close any account in the Automated 
Standard Application for Payments system that has had no unexpended 
balance remaining for the previous six months. On June 15 of each year, 
the Secretary of the Treasury shall submit to the Budget Committees a 
report that lists each account closed pursuant to this subsection and 
the agency that controlled the account.
    (d) Exception to Closure.--The Director of the Office of Management 
and Budget may prevent the closure of an account under this Act only 
after submitting to the Chair and Ranking Member of the Budget 
Committees a report that describes the reason for not closing such 
account.

SEC. 4. DEFINITIONS.

    In this Act:
            (1) Agency.--The term ``agency'' has the meaning given that 
        term in section 551 of title 5, United States Code.
            (2) Budget committees.--The term ``Budget Committees'' 
        means the Committee on the Budget of the House of 
        Representatives and the Senate Budget Committee.
            (3) Grant account.--The term ``grant account'' includes any 
        account in--
                    (A) the Payment Management System or the Automated 
                Standard Application for Payments system; or
                    (B) any other system that may be created or 
                administered by the Financial Management System of the 
                Department of the Treasury.
                                 <all>
