
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[S. 148 Introduced in Senate (IS)]

113th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                 S. 148

 To safeguard America's schools by using community policing strategies 
   to prevent school violence and improve student and school safety.


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

             January 24 (legislative day, January 3), 2013

  Mrs. Boxer introduced the following bill; which was read twice and 
               referred to the Committee on the Judiciary

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
 To safeguard America's schools by using community policing strategies 
   to prevent school violence and improve student and school safety.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SCHOOL RESOURCE AND SAFETY OFFICER GRANT PROGRAM.

    Part AA of title I of the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets 
Act of 1968 (42 U.S.C. 3797a et seq.) is amended--
            (1) by striking the heading and inserting ``school security 
        grants'';
            (2) by inserting before section 2701 the following:

       ``Subpart 1--Matching Grant Program for School Security'';

            (3) in sections 2701 through 2705, by striking ``part'' 
        each place that term appears and inserting ``subpart''; and
            (4) by adding at the end the following:

     ``Subpart 2--School Resource and Safety Officer Grant Program

``SEC. 2711. DEFINITIONS.

    ``In this subpart--
            ``(1) the term `career law enforcement officer' has the 
        meaning given the term in section 1709;
            ``(2) the term `Director' means the Director of the Office 
        of Community Oriented Policing Services;
            ``(3) the term `Indian tribe' has the meaning given the 
        term in section 4(e) of the Indian Self-Determination and 
        Education Assistance Act (25 U.S.C. 450b(e));
            ``(4) the term `school' means a public elementary or 
        secondary school;
            ``(5) the term `school resource and safety officer' means a 
        career law enforcement officer, with sworn authority, deployed 
        in community oriented policing, and assigned by the employing 
        police department or agency to protect schools, who works in 
        and around schools for not less than 75 percent of the time 
        that the officer is on duty (measured weekly, monthly, or 
        annually); and
            ``(6) the term `unit of local government' means a county, 
        municipality, town, township, village, parish, borough, or 
        other unit of general government below the State level.

``SEC. 2712. PROGRAM AUTHORIZED.

    ``(a) In General.--The Director is authorized to make grants to 
units of local government and Indian tribes to provide for school 
resource and safety officers at schools.
    ``(b) Uses of Funds.--Grants awarded under this section shall be--
            ``(1) distributed directly to a unit of local government or 
        Indian tribe; and
            ``(2) used to improve security at schools and on school 
        grounds in the jurisdiction of the recipient by hiring and 
        training career law enforcement officers for deployment in 
        schools as school resource and safety officers.
    ``(c) Maximum Amount Per Officer or Training Program.--
            ``(1) In general.--Except as provided in paragraph (2), the 
        amount of a grant may not exceed $200,000 for each--
                    ``(A) school resource and safety officer proposed 
                to be hired; or
                    ``(B) training program proposed to be funded.
            ``(2) Waiver.--The Director may issue a waiver of the 
        requirement under paragraph (1) for a recipient of a grant 
        under this subpart.
    ``(d) Duration.--
            ``(1) In general.--The Director may make available funds 
        under a grant under this subpart during a period of not more 
        than 3 fiscal years.
            ``(2) Renewal.--Notwithstanding paragraph (1), the Director 
        may continue to make available additional funds to a recipient 
        after all funds under the original grant have been made 
        available if the Director determines that--
                    ``(A) the funds made available to the recipient 
                were used in a manner required under an approved 
                application; and
                    ``(B) the recipient demonstrates significant 
                financial need.
    ``(e) Limitation on Use of Funds.--
            ``(1) Nonsupplanting.--Funds made available under this 
        subpart to a unit of local government shall not be used to 
        supplant funds of the unit of local government, or, in the case 
        of an Indian tribe, funds supplied by the Bureau of Indian 
        Affairs, and shall be used to increase the amount of funds that 
        would, in the absence of Federal funds received under this 
        subpart, be made available from the unit of local government, 
        or in the case of an Indian tribe, from funds supplied by the 
        Bureau of Indian Affairs.
            ``(2) Administrative costs.--The Director may reserve not 
        more than 2 percent from amounts appropriated to carry out this 
        subpart for administrative costs.
    ``(f) Training.--
            ``(1) Establishment of guidelines.--The Director shall 
        establish guidelines for programs that train school resource 
        and safety officers.
            ``(2) Specific requirements.--In establishing guidelines 
        under paragraph (1), the Director shall ensure that the 
        guidelines address how to--
                    ``(A) distinguish between--
                            ``(i) minor disciplinary infractions better 
                        dealt with by school officials; and
                            ``(ii) major security problems that require 
                        law enforcement involvement; and
                    ``(B) utilize alternatives to law enforcement 
                involvement in school disciplinary measures.
    ``(g) Equitable Distribution.--In awarding grants under this 
subpart, the Director shall ensure, to the extent practicable, an 
equitable geographic distribution among the regions of the United 
States and among urban, suburban, and rural areas.

``SEC. 2713. APPLICATIONS.

    ``(a) In General.--To request a grant under this subpart, the chief 
executive of a unit of local government or Indian tribe shall submit an 
application to the Director at such time, in such manner, and 
accompanied by such information as the Director may require.
    ``(b) Contents of Applications.--Each application under this 
section shall--
            ``(1) include a detailed explanation of--
                    ``(A) the intended uses of funds made available 
                under a grant; and
                    ``(B) how the activities funded under a grant will 
                prevent school violence and improve student and school 
                safety;
            ``(2) describe the ability of the applicant to prevent 
        school violence and improve student and school safety without 
        Federal assistance; and
            ``(3) include a memorandum of understanding between the law 
        enforcement agency supplying the school resource and safety 
        officer and the grant recipient that describes the disciplinary 
        actions that are the exclusive responsibilities of school staff 
        and faculty.
    ``(c) Guidelines.--Not later than 90 days after the date of 
enactment of this subpart, the Director shall promulgate guidelines to 
implement this section.

``SEC. 2714. REPORTS.

    ``(a) Director Report.--Not later than November 30 of each year, 
the Director shall submit to Congress a report relating to the 
activities carried out under this subpart that includes, for the 
preceding fiscal year--
            ``(1) the number of grants funded under this subpart;
            ``(2) the amount of funds made available under the grants 
        described in paragraph (1); and
            ``(3) the number of school resource and safety officers 
        that the funds described in paragraph (2) supported.
    ``(b) Grant Recipient Report.--For each year during which a 
recipient receives funds under this subpart, the recipient shall, at a 
date determined by the Director, submit to the Director a report 
relating to the activities carried out by the recipient that includes 
information, as determined by the Director, relating to the use of 
funds.

``SEC. 2715. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.

    ``There are authorized to be appropriated to carry out this subpart 
such sums as are necessary for each of fiscal years 2014 through 
2023.''.
                                 <all>
