
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 3100 Introduced in House (IH)]

113th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                H. R. 3100

To amend the District of Columbia Home Rule Act to make local funds of 
 the District of Columbia available for use by the District during any 
 portion of a fiscal year in which no Federal law appropriating local 
   funds for the fiscal year is in effect, at the rates of operation 
provided under the local budget act for the fiscal year, and for other 
                               purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                           September 12, 2013

  Ms. Norton introduced the following bill; which was referred to the 
              Committee on Oversight and Government Reform

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
To amend the District of Columbia Home Rule Act to make local funds of 
 the District of Columbia available for use by the District during any 
 portion of a fiscal year in which no Federal law appropriating local 
   funds for the fiscal year is in effect, at the rates of operation 
provided under the local budget act for the fiscal year, and for other 
                               purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``District of Columbia Government 
Shutdown Avoidance Act of 2013''.

SEC. 2. AVAILABILITY OF DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA LOCAL FUNDS IN ABSENCE OF 
              FEDERAL LAW APPROPRIATING LOCAL FUNDS.

    (a) In General.--Subpart 1 of part D of title IV of the District of 
Columbia Home Rule Act is amended by inserting after section 446B the 
following new section:

        ``availability of local funds in absence of federal law

    ``Sec. 446C.  (a) Availability of Local Funds at Rate Established 
by Local Law in Absence of Federal Law Appropriating Local Funds.--
Notwithstanding any other provision of this Act, during any portion of 
a fiscal year in which neither the regular District of Columbia 
appropriation bill for the fiscal year nor a District of Columbia 
continuing resolution for the fiscal year is in effect, the District of 
Columbia may obligate and expend local funds for projects and 
activities in accordance with the local budget act for the fiscal year 
at the rate of operations provided under such local budget act.
    ``(b) Terms and Conditions.--The obligation and expenditure of 
local funds for a project or activity during a fiscal year pursuant to 
this section shall be subject to the terms and conditions imposed with 
respect to the obligation and expenditure of local funds for the 
project or activity during the preceding fiscal year, or the authority 
granted for such project or activity under the applicable law in effect 
at the time.
    ``(c) Definitions.--In this section--
            ``(1) the term `District of Columbia continuing resolution' 
        means, with respect to a fiscal year, any joint resolution 
        making continuing appropriations for the fiscal year which 
        includes continuing appropriations for the government of the 
        District of Columbia and other activities chargeable in whole 
        or in part against the revenues of the District;
            ``(2) the term `local budget act' means, with respect to a 
        fiscal year, the act of the Council adopting the annual budget 
        for the District of Columbia government for such fiscal year, 
        as enacted pursuant to this Act; and
            ``(3) the term `regular District of Columbia appropriation 
        bill' means, with respect to a fiscal year, an annual 
        appropriation bill making appropriations, otherwise making 
        funds available, or granting authority, for the fiscal year for 
        the government of the District of Columbia and other activities 
        chargeable in whole or in part against the revenues of the 
        District.
    ``(d) Effective Date.--This section shall apply with respect to 
fiscal year 2014 and each succeeding fiscal year.''.
    (b) Conforming Amendment.--Section 446 of such Act (sec. 1-204.46, 
D.C. Official Code) is amended by inserting ``section 446C,'' after 
``section 446B,''.
    (c) Clerical Amendment.--The table of contents of subpart 1 of part 
D of title IV of the District of Columbia Home Rule Act is amended by 
inserting after the item relating to section 446B the following:

``446C. Availability of local funds in absence of Federal law.''.
                                 <all>
