
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 1528 Reported in House (RH)]

                                                 Union Calendar No. 338
113th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                H. R. 1528

                      [Report No. 113-457, Part I]

   To amend the Controlled Substances Act to allow a veterinarian to 
  transport and dispense controlled substances in the usual course of 
        veterinary practice outside of the registered location.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                             April 12, 2013

Mr. Schrader (for himself, Mr. Yoho, Mrs. Hartzler, Mrs. Blackburn, Mr. 
 Rodney Davis of Illinois, Mr. King of Iowa, Mr. Collins of New York, 
and Mr. Pierluisi) introduced the following bill; which was referred to 
the Committee on Energy and Commerce, and in addition to the Committee 
  on the Judiciary, for a period to be subsequently determined by the 
  Speaker, in each case for consideration of such provisions as fall 
           within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned

                              May 20, 2014

Additional sponsors: Mr. Farr, Mr. Ribble, Mr. Lucas, Mr. Peterson, Mr. 
   Duncan of Tennessee, Mr. Kinzinger of Illinois, Mr. LaMalfa, Mr. 
 Johnson of Georgia, Mr. Harper, Mr. Rogers of Alabama, Mr. Welch, Mr. 
    Huelskamp, Mr. Crawford, Mr. Smith of Nebraska, Mr. Hastings of 
 Florida, Mr. Hanna, Mr. Valadao, Mr. Pearce, Mr. Barr, Mr. Lance, Mr. 
 Johnson of Ohio, Mr. Latham, Mrs. Bustos, Mr. Duffy, Mr. Blumenauer, 
Mrs. Miller of Michigan, Mr. Guthrie, Mr. Austin Scott of Georgia, Mr. 
  Doyle, Mr. Kline, Mr. Benishek, Mr. Walberg, Mr. Long, Mr. Ryan of 
Ohio, Mr. David Scott of Georgia, Ms. Pingree of Maine, Mr. Cohen, Mr. 
   Griffith of Virginia, Mr. Gibbs, Ms. Schakowsky, Mr. Fincher, Mr. 
Enyart, Mr. Tierney, Mr. Buchanan, Mr. Pompeo, Mr. McClintock, Ms. Ros-
  Lehtinen, Ms. Jackson Lee, Mr. Runyan, Mr. Griffin of Arkansas, Mr. 
Lankford, Mr. Burgess, Mr. Radel, Mr. Rigell, Mr. Gibson, Ms. Jenkins, 
 Mr. McGovern, Mr. Courtney, Mr. DesJarlais, Mr. Gardner, Mr. Massie, 
  Mr. Yoder, Mr. Salmon, Ms. Schwartz, Mr. Butterfield, Mr. Kelly of 
  Pennsylvania, Mr. Nugent, Mr. Smith of Washington, Mr. Huffman, Mr. 
Cole, Mr. Grijalva, Ms. DelBene, Ms. Duckworth, Mr. Bachus, Mr. Pocan, 
  Mr. Young of Alaska, Ms. Lofgren, Mr. Whitfield, Ms. McCollum, Mrs. 
 Walorski, Mr. Hultgren, Mr. Harris, Mrs. Beatty, Mr. Terry, Mr. Clay, 
Mr. Hurt, Mr. Serrano, Ms. Esty, Mr. Holt, Mr. Yarmuth, Mr. Honda, Mr. 
    Garamendi, Mrs. McMorris Rodgers, Mr. Crenshaw, Ms. Brownley of 
    California, Mr. Rokita, Mr. Hudson, Mrs. Ellmers, Mr. Kind, Mr. 
   Goodlatte, Mr. DeFazio, Mr. Rangel, Mr. Moran, Mr. McIntyre, Mr. 
  Nadler, Ms. Shea-Porter, Mr. Neal, Mr. Sean Patrick Maloney of New 
 York, Mr. Thompson of Pennsylvania, Mr. Walz, Mr. Costa, Mrs. Negrete 
McLeod, Mr. Nolan, Mr. Joyce, Mrs. Kirkpatrick, Mr. Cramer, Ms. Kuster, 
   Mr. Cardenas, Mr. Meehan, Mr. Jones, Mr. Engel, Mr. McKinley, Mr. 
  Lynch, Mr. Sensenbrenner, Mrs. Noem, Mr. Peters of California, Mr. 
 Bishop of New York, Mr. Posey, Mr. Schock, Mrs. Roby, Mr. Tipton, Mr. 
    Connolly, Mr. Denham, Mr. Garcia, Mr. Cartwright, Mr. Scott of 
 Virginia, Mr. Westmoreland, Mr. Price of North Carolina, Mr. Gallego, 
  Ms. Velazquez, Mr. Paulsen, Mr. Coble, Ms. Gabbard, Mr. Roskam, Mr. 
Tonko, Mr. Swalwell of California, Mr. Latta, Mr. Hall, Mr. Chabot, Mr. 
Ellison, Mr. Owens, Mrs. Bachmann, Mr. Polis, Mr. Walden, Mr. LoBiondo, 
 Ms. Norton, Mr. Vargas, Mr. Perlmutter, Mr. Israel, Mr. Wittman, Ms. 
  Lee of California, Mr. Braley of Iowa, Mr. Lowenthal, Mr. Broun of 
     Georgia, Ms. Sinema, Ms. Castor of Florida, Mr. Langevin, Mr. 
Schneider, Ms. Chu, Mr. Bishop of Georgia, Mrs. Capps, Mr. King of New 
York, Ms. DeLauro, Mr. Deutch, Mr. Jolly, Mr. Smith of Texas, Ms. Clark 
                   of Massachusetts, and Mr. Simpson

                              May 20, 2014

  Reported from the Committee on Energy and Commerce with an amendment
 [Strike out all after the enacting clause and insert the part printed 
                               in italic]

                              May 20, 2014

 The Committee on the Judiciary discharged; committed to the Committee 
 of the Whole House on the State of the Union and ordered to be printed

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
   To amend the Controlled Substances Act to allow a veterinarian to 
  transport and dispense controlled substances in the usual course of 
        veterinary practice outside of the registered location.


 


    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

<DELETED>SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.</DELETED>

<DELETED>    This Act may be cited as the ``Veterinary Medicine 
Mobility Act of 2013''.</DELETED>

<DELETED>SEC. 2. TRANSPORT AND DISPENSING OF CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES IN 
              THE USUAL COURSE OF VETERINARY PRACTICE.</DELETED>

<DELETED>    Section 302(e) of the Controlled Substances Act (21 U.S.C. 
822(e)) is amended--</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    (1) by striking ``(e)'' and inserting ``(e)(1)''; 
        and</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    (2) by adding at the end the following:</DELETED>
<DELETED>    ``(2) Notwithstanding paragraph (1), a registrant who is a 
veterinarian shall not be required to have a separate registration in 
order to transport and dispense controlled substances in the usual 
course of veterinary practice at a site other than the registrant's 
registered principal place of business or professional practice, so 
long as the site of dispensing is located in a State where the 
veterinarian is licensed to practice veterinary medicine.''.</DELETED>

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Veterinary Medicine Mobility Act of 
2014''.

SEC. 2. TRANSPORT AND DISPENSING OF CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES IN THE USUAL 
              COURSE OF VETERINARY PRACTICE.

    Section 302(e) of the Controlled Substances Act (21 U.S.C. 822(e)) 
is amended--
            (1) by striking ``(e)'' and inserting ``(e)(1)''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following:
    ``(2) Notwithstanding paragraph (1), a registrant who is a 
veterinarian shall not be required to have a separate registration in 
order to transport and dispense controlled substances in the usual 
course of veterinary practice at a site other than the registrant's 
registered principal place of business or professional practice, so 
long as the site of transporting and dispensing is located in a State 
where the veterinarian is licensed to practice veterinary medicine and 
is not a principal place of business or professional practice.''.
                                                 Union Calendar No. 338

113th CONGRESS

  2d Session

                               H. R. 1528

                      [Report No. 113-457, Part I]

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL

   To amend the Controlled Substances Act to allow a veterinarian to 
  transport and dispense controlled substances in the usual course of 
        veterinary practice outside of the registered location.

_______________________________________________________________________

                              May 20, 2014

  Reported from the Committee on Energy and Commerce with an amendment

                              May 20, 2014

 The Committee on the Judiciary discharged; committed to the Committee 
 of the Whole House on the State of the Union and ordered to be printed
