
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[S. 1845 Placed on Calendar Senate (PCS)]

                                                       Calendar No. 265
113th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                S. 1845

To provide for the extension of certain unemployment benefits, and for 
                            other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                           December 17, 2013

 Mr. Reed (for himself, Mr. Heller, Mr. Leahy, Mr. Harkin, Mr. Murphy, 
  Mr. Sanders, Ms. Stabenow, Mr. Markey, Mr. Durbin, Mrs. Murray, Mr. 
  Franken, Ms. Baldwin, Ms. Klobuchar, and Mr. Wyden) introduced the 
             following bill; which was read the first time

                           December 18, 2013

            Read the second time and placed on the calendar

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
To provide for the extension of certain unemployment benefits, and for 
                            other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Emergency Unemployment Compensation 
Extension Act''.

SEC. 2. EXTENSION OF EMERGENCY UNEMPLOYMENT COMPENSATION PROGRAM.

    (a) Extension.--Section 4007(a)(2) of the Supplemental 
Appropriations Act, 2008 (Public Law 110-252; 26 U.S.C. 3304 note) is 
amended by striking ``January 1, 2014'' and inserting ``April 1, 
2014''.
    (b) Funding.--Section 4004(e)(1) of the Supplemental Appropriations 
Act, 2008 (Public Law 110-252; 26 U.S.C. 3304 note) is amended--
            (1) in subparagraph (I), by striking ``and'' at the end;
            (2) in subparagraph (J), by inserting ``and'' at the end; 
        and
            (3) by inserting after subparagraph (J) the following:
                    ``(K) the amendments made by section 2(a) of the 
                Emergency Unemployment Compensation Extension Act ;''.
    (c) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this section shall take 
effect as if included in the enactment of the American Taxpayer Relief 
Act of 2012 (Public Law 112-240).

SEC. 3. TEMPORARY EXTENSION OF EXTENDED BENEFIT PROVISIONS.

    (a) In General.--Section 2005 of the Assistance for Unemployed 
Workers and Struggling Families Act, as contained in Public Law 111-5 
(26 U.S.C. 3304 note), is amended--
            (1) by striking ``December 31, 2013'' each place it appears 
        and inserting ``March 31, 2014''; and
            (2) in subsection (c), by striking ``June 30, 2014'' and 
        inserting ``September 30, 2014''.
    (b) Extension of Matching for States With No Waiting Week.--Section 
5 of the Unemployment Compensation Extension Act of 2008 (Public Law 
110-449; 26 U.S.C. 3304 note) is amended by striking ``June 30, 2014'' 
and inserting ``September 30, 2014''.
    (c) Extension of Modification of Indicators Under the Extended 
Benefit Program.--Section 203 of the Federal-State Extended 
Unemployment Compensation Act of 1970 (26 U.S.C. 3304 note) is 
amended--
            (1) in subsection (d), by striking ``December 31, 2013'' 
        and inserting ``March 31, 2014''; and
            (2) in subsection (f)(2), by striking ``December 31, 2013'' 
        and inserting ``March 31, 2014''.
    (d) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this section shall take 
effect as if included in the enactment of the American Taxpayer Relief 
Act of 2012 (Public Law 112-240).

SEC. 4. EXTENSION OF FUNDING FOR REEMPLOYMENT SERVICES AND REEMPLOYMENT 
              AND ELIGIBILITY ASSESSMENT ACTIVITIES.

    (a) In General.--Section 4004(c)(2)(A) of the Supplemental 
Appropriations Act, 2008 (Public Law 110-252; 26 U.S.C. 3304 note) is 
amended by striking ``through fiscal year 2014'' and inserting 
``through the first quarter of fiscal year 2015''.
    (b) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this section shall take 
effect as if included in the enactment of the American Taxpayer Relief 
Act of 2012 (Public Law 112-240).

SEC. 5. ADDITIONAL EXTENDED UNEMPLOYMENT BENEFITS UNDER THE RAILROAD 
              UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE ACT.

    (a) Extension.--Section 2(c)(2)(D)(iii) of the Railroad 
Unemployment Insurance Act (45 U.S.C. 352(c)(2)(D)(iii)) is amended--
            (1) by striking ``June 30, 2013'' and inserting ``September 
        30, 2013''; and
            (2) by striking ``December 31, 2013'' and inserting ``March 
        31, 2014''.
    (b) Clarification on Authority To Use Funds.--Funds appropriated 
under either the first or second sentence of clause (iv) of section 
2(c)(2)(D) of the Railroad Unemployment Insurance Act shall be 
available to cover the cost of additional extended unemployment 
benefits provided under such section 2(c)(2)(D) by reason of the 
amendments made by subsection (a) as well as to cover the cost of such 
benefits provided under such section 2(c)(2)(D), as in effect on the 
day before the date of enactment of this Act.
    (c) Funding for Administration.--Out of any funds in the Treasury 
not otherwise appropriated, there are appropriated to the Railroad 
Retirement Board $62,500 for administrative expenses associated with 
the payment of additional extended unemployment benefits provided under 
section 2(c)(2)(D) of the Railroad Unemployment Insurance Act by reason 
of the amendments made by subsection (a), to remain available until 
expended.

SEC. 6. FLEXIBILITY FOR UNEMPLOYMENT PROGRAM AGREEMENTS.

    (a) Flexibility.--
            (1) In general.--Subsection (g) of section 4001 of the 
        Supplemental Appropriations Act, 2008 (Public Law 110-252; 26 
        U.S.C. 3304 note) shall not apply with respect to a State that 
        has enacted a law before December 1, 2013, that, upon taking 
        effect, would violate such subsection.
            (2) Effective date.--Paragraph (1) is effective with 
        respect to weeks of unemployment beginning on or after December 
        29, 2013.
    (b) Permitting a Subsequent Agreement.--Nothing in such title IV 
shall preclude a State whose agreement under such title was terminated 
from entering into a subsequent agreement under such title on or after 
the date of the enactment of this Act if the State, taking into account 
the application of subsection (a), would otherwise meet the 
requirements for an agreement under such title.
                                                       Calendar No. 265

113th CONGRESS

  1st Session

                                S. 1845

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL

To provide for the extension of certain unemployment benefits, and for 
                            other purposes.

_______________________________________________________________________

                           December 18, 2013

            Read the second time and placed on the calendar
