
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[S. 832 Introduced in Senate (IS)]

113th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                 S. 832

    To require the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to carry out pilot 
programs on furnishing case management services and assisted living to 
 children of Vietnam veterans and certain Korea service veterans born 
  with spina bifida and children of women Vietnam veterans born with 
             certain birth defects, and for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                             April 25, 2013

 Mr. Donnelly introduced the following bill; which was read twice and 
             referred to the Committee on Veterans' Affairs

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
    To require the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to carry out pilot 
programs on furnishing case management services and assisted living to 
 children of Vietnam veterans and certain Korea service veterans born 
  with spina bifida and children of women Vietnam veterans born with 
             certain birth defects, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Improving the Lives of Children with 
Spina Bifida Act of 2013''.

SEC. 2. PILOT PROGRAM ON FURNISHING CASE MANAGEMENT SERVICES TO 
              CHILDREN OF VIETNAM VETERANS AND CERTAIN KOREA SERVICE 
              VETERANS BORN WITH SPINA BIFIDA AND CHILDREN OF WOMEN 
              VIETNAM VETERANS BORN WITH CERTAIN BIRTH DEFECTS.

    (a) Pilot Program.--Commencing not later than 180 days after the 
date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Veterans Affairs 
shall carry out a pilot program to assess the feasibility and 
advisability of furnishing to covered individuals case management 
services under a national contract with a third party entity.
    (b) Covered Individuals.--For purposes of this section, a covered 
individual is any individual who--
            (1) is entitled to health care or other benefits under 
        chapter 18 of title 38, United States Code; and
            (2) lives in a rural area and does not have access to case 
        management services at the Department of Veterans Affairs or 
        otherwise.
    (c) Duration.--
            (1) In general.--Except as otherwise provided in this 
        subsection, the pilot program shall be carried out during the 
        three-year period beginning on the date of the commencement of 
        the pilot program.
            (2) Continuation.--Subject to paragraph (3), the Secretary 
        may continue the pilot program for an additional two-year 
        period as the Secretary considers appropriate.
            (3) Termination.--The pilot program may not operate after 
        the date that is five years after the date of the commencement 
        of the pilot program.
    (d) Locations.--The Secretary shall select locations in which to 
carry out the pilot program from among locations that the Secretary 
considers rural and where individuals who reside in such locations lack 
access to comprehensive case management services through the Department 
or otherwise.
    (e) Scope of Services.--Under the pilot program, the Secretary 
shall provide covered individuals with integrated, comprehensive 
services, including the following:
            (1) Coordination and management of needed health care, 
        monetary, and general care services authorized under chapter 18 
        of title 38, United States Code.
            (2) Transportation services.
            (3) Such other services as the Secretary considers 
        appropriate for the care of covered individuals under the pilot 
        program.
    (f) Program Requirements.--In carrying out the pilot program, the 
Secretary shall--
            (1) inform all covered individuals of the services 
        available under the pilot program;
            (2) enter into contracts with appropriate third party 
        entities for the provision of case management services under 
        the pilot program; and
            (3) determine the appropriate number of covered individuals 
        to be enrolled in the pilot program and criteria for such 
        enrollment.
    (g) Reports.--
            (1) Preliminary reports.--
                    (A) In general.--Not later than one year after the 
                date of the commencement of the pilot program and, if 
                the pilot program is continued under subsection (c)(2), 
                not later than three years after the date of the 
                commencement of the pilot program, the Secretary shall 
                submit to the Committee on Veterans' Affairs of the 
                Senate and the Committee on Veterans' Affairs of the 
                House of Representatives a report on the pilot program.
                    (B) Contents.--Each report submitted under 
                subparagraph (A) shall include the following:
                            (i) A description of the implementation and 
                        operation of the pilot program.
                            (ii) The number of covered individuals 
                        receiving benefits under the pilot program.
                            (iii) An analysis of the costs and benefits 
                        under the pilot program.
                            (iv) An assessment of the utilization of 
                        case management under the pilot program.
                            (v) The findings and conclusions of the 
                        Secretary with respect to the pilot program.
                            (vi) Such recommendations for the 
                        continuation or expansion of the pilot program 
                        as the Secretary may have.
            (2) Final report.--
                    (A) In general.--Not later than 180 days after the 
                completion of the pilot program, the Secretary shall 
                submit to the Committee on Veterans' Affairs of the 
                Senate and the Committee on Veterans' Affairs of the 
                House of Representatives a report on the pilot program.
                    (B) Contents.--The report submitted subparagraph 
                (A) shall include the following:
                            (i) The findings and conclusions of the 
                        Secretary with respect to the pilot program.
                            (ii) Such recommendations for the 
                        continuation or expansion of the pilot program 
                        as the Secretary may have.
    (h) Funding.--Amounts to carry out the pilot program shall be 
derived from amounts appropriated or otherwise made available before 
the date of the enactment of this Act for the furnishing of care and 
case management under chapter 18 of title 38, United States Code.

SEC. 3. PILOT PROGRAM ON FURNISHING ASSISTED LIVING TO CHILDREN OF 
              VIETNAM VETERANS AND CERTAIN KOREA SERVICE VETERANS BORN 
              WITH SPINA BIFIDA AND CHILDREN OF WOMEN VIETNAM VETERANS 
              BORN WITH CERTAIN BIRTH DEFECTS.

    (a) Pilot Program.--Commencing not later than 180 days after the 
date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Veterans Affairs 
shall carry out a pilot program to assess the feasibility and 
advisability of providing assisted living, group home care, or similar 
services in lieu of nursing home care to covered individuals.
    (b) Covered Individuals.--For purposes of this section, a covered 
individual is any individual who is entitled to health care or other 
benefits under chapter 18 of title 38, United States Code.
    (c) Duration.--
            (1) In general.--Except as otherwise provided in this 
        subsection, the pilot program shall be carried out during the 
        three-year period beginning on the date of the commencement of 
        the pilot program.
            (2) Continuation.--Subject to paragraph (3), the Secretary 
        may continue the pilot program for an additional two-year 
        period as the Secretary considers appropriate.
            (3) Termination.--The pilot program may not operate after 
        the date that is five years after the date of the commencement 
        of the pilot program.
    (d) Scope of Services and Pilot Program.--Under the pilot program, 
the Secretary shall provide covered individuals with integrated, 
comprehensive services, including the following:
            (1) Assisted living, group home care, or such other similar 
        services as the Secretary considers appropriate.
            (2) Transportation services.
            (3) Such other services as the Secretary considers 
        appropriate for the care of covered individuals under the pilot 
        program.
    (e) Program Requirements.--In carrying out the pilot program, the 
Secretary shall--
            (1) inform all covered individuals of the services 
        available under the pilot program;
            (2) consider entering into an agreement with appropriate 
        providers of assisted living, group home care, or other similar 
        services for provision of services under the pilot program; and
            (3) determine the appropriate number of covered individuals 
        to be enrolled in the pilot program and criteria for such 
        enrollment.
    (f) Reports.--
            (1) Preliminary reports.--
                    (A) In general.--Not later than one year after the 
                date of the commencement of the pilot program and, if 
                the pilot program is continued under subsection (c)(2), 
                not later than three years after the date of the 
                commencement of the pilot program, the Secretary shall 
                submit to the Committee on Veterans' Affairs of the 
                Senate and the Committee on Veterans' Affairs of the 
                House of Representatives a report on the pilot program.
                    (B) Contents.--Each report submitted under 
                subparagraph (A) shall include the following:
                            (i) A description of the implementation and 
                        operation of the pilot program.
                            (ii) The number of covered individuals 
                        receiving benefits under the pilot program.
                            (iii) An analysis that compares the costs 
                        of furnishing assisted living, group home care, 
                        or similar service with the costs of furnishing 
                        nursing home care.
                            (iv) An analysis of the costs and benefits 
                        under the pilot program.
                            (v) The findings and conclusions of the 
                        Secretary with respect to the pilot program.
                            (vi) Such recommendations for the 
                        continuation or expansion of the pilot program 
                        as the Secretary may have.
            (2) Final report.--
                    (A) In general.--Not later than 180 days after the 
                completion of the pilot program, the Secretary shall 
                submit to the Committee on Veterans' Affairs of the 
                Senate and the Committee on Veterans' Affairs of the 
                House of Representatives a report on the pilot program.
                    (B) Contents.--The report submitted subparagraph 
                (A) shall include the following:
                            (i) The findings and conclusions of the 
                        Secretary with respect to the pilot program.
                            (ii) Such recommendations for the 
                        continuation or expansion of the pilot program 
                        as the Secretary may have.
    (g) Funding.--Amounts to carry out the pilot program shall be 
derived from amounts appropriated or otherwise made available before 
the date of the enactment of this Act for the furnishing of nursing 
home care under chapter 18 of title 38, United States Code.
                                 <all>
