
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 682 Introduced in House (IH)]

113th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                H. R. 682

                   For the relief of Ibrahim Parlak.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                           February 13, 2013

  Mr. Upton introduced the following bill; which was referred to the 
                       Committee on the Judiciary

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
                   For the relief of Ibrahim Parlak.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. PERMANENT RESIDENT STATUS FOR IBRAHIM PARLAK.

    (a) In General.--Notwithstanding subsections (a) and (b) of section 
201 of the Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1151), Ibrahim 
Parlak shall be eligible for issuance of an immigrant visa or for 
adjustment of status to that of an alien lawfully admitted for 
permanent residence upon filing an application for issuance of an 
immigrant visa under section 204 of that Act (8 U.S.C. 1154) or for 
adjustment of status to lawful permanent resident.
    (b) Adjustment of Status.--If Ibrahim Parlak enters the United 
States before the filing deadline specified in subsection (c), Ibrahim 
Parlak shall be considered to have entered and remained lawfully and 
shall be eligible for adjustment of status under section 245 of the 
Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1255) as of the date of 
enactment of this Act.
    (c) Deadline for Application and Payment of Fees.--Subsections (a) 
and (b) shall apply only if the application for issuance of an 
immigrant visa or the application for adjustment of status is filed 
with appropriate fees within 2 years after the date of enactment of 
this Act.
    (d) Reduction of Immigrant Visa Numbers.--Upon the granting of an 
immigrant visa or permanent residence to Ibrahim Parlak, the Secretary 
of State shall instruct the proper officer to reduce by 1, during the 
current or next following fiscal year, the total number of immigrant 
visas that are made available to natives of the country of birth of 
Ibrahim Parlak under section 203(a) of the Immigration and Nationality 
Act (8 U.S.C. 1153(a)) or, if applicable, the total number of immigrant 
visas that are made available to natives of the country of birth of 
Ibrahim Parlak under section 202(e) of that Act (8 U.S.C. 1152(e)).
    (e) Denial of Preferential Immigration Treatment for Certain 
Relatives.--The natural parents, brothers, and sisters of Ibrahim 
Parlak shall not, by virtue of such relationship, be accorded any 
right, privilege, or status under the Immigration and Nationality Act.
                                 <all>
