
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[S. Res. 470 Agreed to Senate (ATS)]

113th CONGRESS
  2d Session
S. RES. 470

     Amending Senate Resolution 400 (94th Congress) to clarify the 
  responsibility of committees of the Senate in the provision of the 
  advice and consent of the Senate to nominations to positions in the 
                        intelligence community.


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                             June 11, 2014

 Mrs. Feinstein submitted the following resolution; which was ordered 
                         placed on the calendar

                              July 7, 2014

                        Considered and agreed to

_______________________________________________________________________

                               RESOLUTION


 
     Amending Senate Resolution 400 (94th Congress) to clarify the 
  responsibility of committees of the Senate in the provision of the 
  advice and consent of the Senate to nominations to positions in the 
                        intelligence community.

    Resolved,

SECTION 1. RESPONSIBILITY OF COMMITTEES IN ADVICE AND CONSENT OF SENATE 
              TO INTELLIGENCE APPOINTMENTS.

    Section 17 of Senate Resolution 400 agreed to May 19, 1976 (94th 
Congress) is amended to read as follows:
    ``Sec. 17. (a)(1) Except as provided in subsections (b) and (c), 
the Select Committee shall have jurisdiction to review, hold hearings, 
and report the nominations of civilian individuals for positions in the 
intelligence community for which appointments are made by the 
President, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate.
    ``(2) Except as provided in subsections (b) and (c), other 
committees with jurisdiction over the department or agency of the 
Executive Branch which contain a position referred to in paragraph (1) 
may hold hearings and interviews with individuals nominated for such 
position, but only the Select Committee shall report such nomination.
    ``(3) In this subsection, the term `intelligence community' means 
an element of the intelligence community specified in or designated 
under section 3(4) of the National Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 
3003(4)).
    ``(b)(1) With respect to the confirmation of the Assistant Attorney 
General for National Security, or any successor position, the 
nomination of any individual by the President to serve in such position 
shall be referred to the Committee on the Judiciary and, if and when 
reported, to the Select Committee for not to exceed 20 calendar days, 
except that in cases when the 20-day period expires while the Senate is 
in recess, the Select Committee shall have 5 additional calendar days 
after the Senate reconvenes to report the nomination.
    ``(2) If, upon the expiration of the period described in paragraph 
(1), the Select Committee has not reported the nomination, such 
nomination shall be automatically discharged from the Select Committee 
and placed on the Executive Calendar.
    ``(c)(1) With respect to the confirmation of appointment to the 
position of Director of the National Security Agency, Inspector General 
of the National Security Agency, Director of the National 
Reconnaissance Office, or Inspector General of the National 
Reconnaissance Office, or any successor position to such a position, 
the nomination of any individual by the President to serve in such 
position, who at the time of the nomination is a member of the Armed 
Forces on active duty, shall be referred to the Committee on Armed 
Services and, if and when reported, to the Select Committee for not to 
exceed 30 calendar days, except that in cases when the 30-day period 
expires while the Senate is in recess, the Select Committee shall have 
5 additional calendar days after the Senate reconvenes to report the 
nomination.
    ``(2) With respect to the confirmation of appointment to the 
position of Director of the National Security Agency, Inspector General 
of the National Security Agency, Director of the National 
Reconnaissance Office, or Inspector General or the National 
Reconnaissance Office, or any successor position to such a position, 
the nomination of any individual by the President to serve in such 
position, who at the time of the nomination is not a member of the 
Armed Forces on active duty, shall be referred to the Select Committee 
and, if and when reported, to the Committee on Armed Services for not 
to exceed 30 calendar days, except that in cases when the 30-day period 
expires while the Senate is in recess, the Committee on Armed Services 
shall have an additional 5 calendar days after the Senate reconvenes to 
report the nomination.
    ``(3) If, upon the expiration of the period of sequential referral 
described in paragraphs (1) and (2), the committee to which the 
nomination was sequentially referred has not reported the nomination, 
the nomination shall be automatically discharged from that committee 
and placed on the Executive Calendar.''.
                                 <all>
