
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[S. 177 Placed on Calendar Senate (PCS)]

                                                         Calendar No. 9
113th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                 S. 177

To repeal the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and the Health 
        Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010 entirely.


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                            January 29, 2013

   Mr. Cruz (for himself, Mr. Johnson of Wisconsin, Mr. Vitter, Mr. 
 Roberts, Mr. Grassley, Mr. Cornyn, Mr. Portman, Mr. Paul, Mr. Rubio, 
   Mr. Johanns, Mr. Wicker, Mr. Coburn, Mr. Isakson, Mr. Blunt, Mr. 
  Chambliss, Mr. Barrasso, Mr. McConnell, Mr. Inhofe, Mr. Flake, Mr. 
Coats, Mr. Boozman, Mr. Risch, Mr. Burr, Mr. Cochran, Mrs. Fischer, Ms. 
Collins, Mr. Scott, Mr. Toomey, Mr. Alexander, Mr. Lee, Mr. Hatch, Ms. 
    Ayotte, Mr. McCain, Mr. Sessions, and Mr. Moran) introduced the 
             following bill; which was read the first time

                            January 30, 2013

            Read the second time and placed on the calendar

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
To repeal the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and the Health 
        Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010 entirely.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``ObamaCare Repeal Act''.

SEC. 2. REPEAL OF THE PATIENT PROTECTION AND AFFORDABLE CARE ACT AND 
              THE HEALTH CARE AND EDUCATION RECONCILIATION ACT OF 2010.

    (a) Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act.--Effective as of 
the enactment of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (Public 
Law 111-148), such Act is repealed, and the provisions of law amended 
or repealed by such Act are restored or revived as if such Act had not 
been enacted.
    (b) Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010.--
Effective as of the enactment of the Health Care and Education 
Reconciliation Act of 2010 (Public Law 111-152), such Act is repealed, 
and the provisions of law amended or repealed by such Act are restored 
or revived as if such Act had not been enacted.

SEC. 3. BUDGETARY EFFECTS OF THIS ACT.

    The budgetary effects of this Act, for the purpose of complying 
with the Statutory Pay-As-You-Go Act of 2010, shall be determined by 
reference to the latest statement titled ``Budgetary Effects of PAYGO 
Legislation'' for this Act, submitted for printing in the Congressional 
Record by the Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the House of 
Representatives, as long as such statement has been submitted prior to 
the vote on passage of this Act.
                                                         Calendar No. 9

113th CONGRESS

  1st Session

                                 S. 177

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL

To repeal the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and the Health 
        Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010 entirely.

_______________________________________________________________________

                            January 30, 2013

            Read the second time and placed on the calendar
