
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 355 Introduced in House (IH)]

113th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                H. R. 355

   To increase the statutory limit on the public debt only upon the 
  certification by the President of the submission to the States for 
their ratification of the proposed amendment to the Constitution of the 
 United States to balance the Federal Budget or limit Federal spending.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                            January 23, 2013

 Mr. Crawford introduced the following bill; which was referred to the 
                      Committee on Ways and Means

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
   To increase the statutory limit on the public debt only upon the 
  certification by the President of the submission to the States for 
their ratification of the proposed amendment to the Constitution of the 
 United States to balance the Federal Budget or limit Federal spending.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. PUBLIC DEBT LIMIT EXTENSION.

    Subsection (b) of section 3101 of title 31, United States Code, is 
amended by striking out the dollar limitation contained in such 
subsection and inserting ``$16,994,000,000,000'' upon the certification 
by the President of the submission to the States for their ratification 
of the proposed amendment to the Constitution of the United States 
described in section 2.

SEC. 2. EFFECTIVE DATE.

    The amendment made by section 1 shall not take effect unless and 
until the date upon which the President certifies the Archivist of the 
United States has submitted to the States for their ratification a 
proposed amendment to the Constitution of the United States pursuant to 
a joint resolution entitled ``Joint resolution proposing a balanced 
budget amendment to the Constitution of the United States'', ``Joint 
resolution proposing a spending limit amendment to the Constitution of 
the United States'', or ``Joint resolution proposing an amendment to 
the Constitution of the United States to restrict the power of Congress 
to enact legislation increasing any amount spent under entitlement 
programs or creating new entitlement programs''.
                                 <all>
