
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 5464 Introduced in House (IH)]

113th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                H. R. 5464

   Making appropriations for Departments of Labor, Health and Human 
   Services, and Education, and related agencies for the fiscal year 
           ending September 30, 2015, and for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                           September 15, 2014

  Ms. DeLauro (for herself, Mrs. Lowey, Ms. Roybal-Allard, Ms. Lee of 
  California, and Mr. Honda) introduced the following bill; which was 
              referred to the Committee on Appropriations

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
   Making appropriations for Departments of Labor, Health and Human 
   Services, and Education, and related agencies for the fiscal year 
           ending September 30, 2015, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled, That the following sums 
are appropriated, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise 
appropriated, for the Departments of Labor, Health and Human Services, 
and Education, and related agencies for the fiscal year ending 
September 30, 2015, and for other purposes, namely:

                                TITLE I

                          DEPARTMENT OF LABOR

                 Employment and Training Administration

                    training and employment services

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For necessary expenses of the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity 
Act (Public Law 113-128) (referred to in this Act as ``WIOA''), the 
Second Chance Act of 2007, and the Women in Apprenticeship and Non-
Traditional Occupations Act of 1992 (``WANTO Act''), $3,146,743,000, 
plus reimbursements, shall be available. Of the amounts provided:
            (1) for grants to States for adult employment and training 
        activities, youth activities, and dislocated worker employment 
        and training activities, $2,624,108,000 as follows:
                    (A) $776,736,000 for adult employment and training 
                activities, of which $64,736,000 shall be available for 
                the period July 1, 2015 through June 30, 2016, and of 
                which $712,000,000 shall be available for the period 
                October 1, 2015 through June 30, 2016;
                    (B) $831,842,000 for youth activities, which shall 
                be available for the period April 1, 2015 through June 
                30, 2016; and
                    (C) $1,015,530,000 for dislocated worker employment 
                and training activities, of which $155,530,000 shall be 
                available for the period July 1, 2015 through June 30, 
                2016, and of which $860,000,000 shall be available for 
                the period October 1, 2015 through June 30, 2016:
  Provided, That notwithstanding section 128(a)(1) of the WIOA, the 
amount available to the Governor for statewide workforce investment 
activities shall not exceed 10 percent of the amount allotted to the 
State from each of the appropriations under the preceding 
subparagraphs;
            (2) for federally administered programs, $433,397,000 as 
        follows:
                    (A) $220,859,000 for the dislocated workers 
                assistance national reserve, of which $20,859,000 shall 
                be available for the period July 1, 2015 through 
                September 30, 2016, and of which $200,000,000 shall be 
                available for the period October 1, 2015 through 
                September 30, 2016:  Provided, That funds provided to 
                carry out section 132(a)(2)(A) of the WIOA section may 
                be used to provide assistance to a State for statewide 
                or local use in order to address cases where there have 
                been worker dislocations across multiple sectors or 
                across multiple local areas and such workers remain 
                dislocated; coordinate the State workforce development 
                plan with emerging economic development needs; and 
                train such eligible dislocated workers:  Provided 
                further, That funds provided to carry out sections 
                168(b) and 169(c) of the WIOA may be used for technical 
                assistance to the workforce system and demonstration 
                projects, respectively, that provide assistance to new 
                entrants in the workforce, adults without employment 
                who are not dislocated workers, and incumbent workers
                    (B) $47,562,000 for Native American programs, which 
                shall be available for the period July 1, 2015 through 
                June 30, 2016;
                    (C) $84,291,000 for migrant and seasonal farmworker 
                programs under section 167 of the WIOA, including 
                $78,207,000 for formula grants (of which not less than 
                70 percent shall be for employment and training 
                services), $5,584,000 for migrant and seasonal housing 
                (of which not less than 70 percent shall be for 
                permanent housing), and $500,000 for other 
                discretionary purposes, which shall be available for 
                the period July 1, 2015 through June 30, 2016:  
                Provided, That notwithstanding any other provision of 
                law or related regulation, the Department of Labor 
                shall take no action limiting the number or proportion 
                of eligible participants receiving related assistance 
                services or discouraging grantees from providing such 
                services;
                    (D) $996,000 for carrying out the WANTO Act, which 
                shall be available for the period July 1, 2015 through 
                June 30, 2016; and
                    (E) $79,689,000 for YouthBuild activities as 
                described in section 171 of the WIOA, which shall be 
                available for the period April 1, 2015 through June 30, 
                2016;
            (3) for national activities, $89,238,000, as follows:
                    (A) $83,238,000 for ex-offender activities, under 
                the authority of section 169 of the WIOA and section 
                212 of the Second Chance Act of 2007, which shall be 
                available for the period April 1, 2015 through June 30, 
                2016:  Provided, That of this amount, $20,000,000 shall 
                be for competitive grants to national and regional 
                intermediaries for activities that prepare young ex-
                offenders and school dropouts for employment, with a 
                priority for projects serving high-crime, high-poverty 
                areas; and
                    (B) $6,000,000 for the Workforce Data Quality 
                Initiative, under the authority of section 169 of the 
                WIOA, which shall be available for the period July 1, 
                2015 through June 30, 2016.

                               job corps

                     (including transfer of funds)

    To carry out subtitle C of title I of the WIOA, including Federal 
administrative expenses, the purchase and hire of passenger motor 
vehicles, the construction, alteration, and repairs of buildings and 
other facilities, and the purchase of real property for training 
centers as authorized by the WIOA, $1,702,946,000, plus reimbursements, 
as follows:
            (1) $1,595,616,000 for Job Corps Operations, which shall be 
        available for the period July 1, 2015 through June 30, 2016;
            (2) $75,000,000 for construction, rehabilitation and 
        acquisition of Job Corps Centers, which shall be available for 
        the period July 1, 2015 through June 30, 2018, and which may 
        include the acquisition, maintenance, and repair of major items 
        of equipment:  Provided, That the Secretary may transfer up to 
        15 percent of such funds to meet the operational needs of such 
        centers or to achieve administrative efficiencies:  Provided 
        further, That any funds transferred pursuant to the preceding 
        proviso shall not be available for obligation after June 30, 
        2016:  Provided further, That the Committees on Appropriations 
        of the House of Representatives and the Senate are notified at 
        least 15 days in advance of any transfer; and
            (3) $32,330,000 for necessary expenses of Job Corps, which 
        shall be available for obligation for the period October 1, 
        2014 through September 30, 2015:
   Provided further, That no funds from any other appropriation shall 
be used to provide meal services at or for Job Corps centers.

            community service employment for older americans

    To carry out title V of the Older Americans Act of 1965 (referred 
to in this Act as ``OAA''), $448,251,000, which shall be available for 
the period July 1, 2015 through June 30, 2016, and may be recaptured 
and reobligated in accordance with section 517(c) of the OAA.

              federal unemployment benefits and allowances

    For payments during fiscal year 2015 of trade adjustment benefit 
payments and allowances under part I of subchapter B of chapter 2 of 
title II of the Trade Act of 1974, and section 246 of that Act; and for 
training, employment and case management services, allowances for job 
search and relocation, and related State administrative expenses under 
part II of subchapter B of chapter 2 of title II of the Trade Act of 
1974, and including benefit payments, allowances, training, employment 
and case management services, and related State administration provided 
pursuant to section 231(a) and section 233(b) of the Trade Adjustment 
Assistance Extension Act of 2011, $710,600,000, together with such 
amounts as may be necessary to be charged to the subsequent 
appropriation for payments for any period subsequent to September 15, 
2015:  Provided, That amounts allocated to States to carry out 
training, employment and case management services, allowances for job 
search and relocation, and related State administrative expenses may be 
recaptured and reobligated in accordance with section 245(c) of the 
Trade Act of 1974.

     state unemployment insurance and employment service operations

    For authorized administrative expenses, $122,638,000, together with 
not to exceed $3,569,889,000 which may be expended from the Employment 
Security Administration Account in the Unemployment Trust Fund (``the 
Trust Fund''), of which:
            (1) $2,830,443,000 from the Trust Fund is for grants to 
        States for the administration of State unemployment insurance 
        laws as authorized under title III of the Social Security Act 
        (including not less than $132,650,000 to conduct in-person 
        reemployment and eligibility assessments and unemployment 
        insurance improper payment reviews, and to provide reemployment 
        services and referrals to training as appropriate, $10,000,000 
        for activities to address the misclassification of workers, and 
        $3,000,000 for continued support of the Unemployment Insurance 
        Integrity Center of Excellence), the administration of 
        unemployment insurance for Federal employees and for ex-service 
        members as authorized under 5 U.S.C. 8501-8523, and the 
        administration of trade readjustment allowances, reemployment 
        trade adjustment assistance, and alternative trade adjustment 
        assistance under the Trade Act of 1974 and under sections 
        231(a) and 233(b) of the Trade Adjustment Assistance Extension 
        Act of 2011 (Public Law 112-40), and shall be available for 
        obligation by the States through December 31, 2015, except that 
        funds used for automation acquisitions shall be available for 
        Federal obligation through December 31, 2015, and for State 
        obligation through September 30, 2017, or, if the automation 
        acquisition is being carried out through consortia of States, 
        for State obligation through September 30, 2020, and for 
        expenditure through September 30, 2021, and funds for 
        competitive grants awarded to States for improved operations, 
        to conduct in-person assessments and reviews and provide 
        reemployment services and referrals, and to address 
        misclassification of workers shall be available for Federal 
        obligation through December 31, 2015 and for obligation by the 
        States through September 30, 2017, and funds used for 
        unemployment insurance workloads experienced by the States 
        through September 30, 2015 shall be available for Federal 
        obligation through December 31, 2015:  Provided, That from the 
        amount specified under this paragraph for in-person 
        reemployment and eligibility assessments and unemployment 
        insurance improper payment reviews and to provide reemployment 
        services and referrals to training, the Secretary of Labor 
        (referred to in this title as ``Secretary'') shall ensure that 
        sufficient amounts are dedicated to provide such assessments, 
        reviews, services, and referrals to all claimants of 
        unemployment insurance for ex-service members under 5 U.S.C. 
        8521 et seq. and to identify the factors impeding the 
        employment of such ex-service members;
            (2) $14,547,000 from the Trust Fund is for national 
        activities necessary to support the administration of the 
        Federal-State unemployment insurance system;
            (3) $642,771,000 from the Trust Fund, together with 
        $59,165,000 from the General Fund of the Treasury, is for 
        grants to States in accordance with section 6 of the Wagner-
        Peyser Act, and shall be available for Federal obligation for 
        the period July 1, 2015 through June 30, 2016;
            (4) $19,818,000 from the Trust Fund is for national 
        activities of the Employment Service, including administration 
        of the work opportunity tax credit under section 51 of the 
        Internal Revenue Code of 1986, and the provision of technical 
        assistance and staff training under the Wagner-Peyser Act;
            (5) $62,310,000 from the Trust Fund is for the 
        administration of foreign labor certifications and related 
        activities under the Immigration and Nationality Act and 
        related laws, of which $48,028,000 shall be available for the 
        Federal administration of such activities, and $14,282,000 
        shall be available for grants to States for the administration 
        of such activities; and
            (6) $63,473,000 from the General Fund is to provide 
        workforce information, national electronic tools, and one-stop 
        system building under the Wagner-Peyser Act and section 169 of 
        the WIOA and shall be available for Federal obligation for the 
        period July 1, 2015 through June 30, 2016:
  Provided, That to the extent that the Average Weekly Insured 
Unemployment (``AWIU'') for fiscal year 2015 is projected by the 
Department of Labor to exceed 2,957,000, an additional $28,600,000 from 
the Trust Fund shall be available for obligation for every 100,000 
increase in the AWIU level (including a pro rata amount for any 
increment less than 100,000) to carry out title III of the Social 
Security Act:  Provided further, That funds appropriated in this Act 
that are allotted to a State to carry out activities under title III of 
the Social Security Act may be used by such State to assist other 
States in carrying out activities under such title III if the other 
States include areas that have suffered a major disaster declared by 
the President under the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and 
Emergency Assistance Act:  Provided further, That the Secretary may use 
funds appropriated for grants to States under title III of the Social 
Security Act to make payments on behalf of States for the use of the 
National Directory of New Hires under section 453(j)(8) of such Act:  
Provided further, That the Secretary may use funds appropriated for 
grants to States under title III of the Social Security Act to make 
payments on behalf of States to the entity operating the State 
Information Data Act to make payments on behalf of States to the entity 
operating the State Information Data Exchange System:  Provided 
further, That funds appropriated in this Act which are used to 
establish a national one-stop career center system, or which are used 
to support the national activities of the Federal-State unemployment 
insurance, employment service, or immigration programs, may be 
obligated in contracts, grants, or agreements with States and non-State 
entities:  Provided further, That States awarded competitive grants for 
improved operations under title III of the Social Security Act, or 
awarded grants to support the national activities of the Federal-State 
unemployment insurance system, may award subgrants to other States 
under such grants, subject to the conditions applicable to the grants:  
Provided further, That funds appropriated under this Act for activities 
authorized under title III of the Social Security Act and the Wagner-
Peyser Act may be used by States to fund integrated Unemployment 
Insurance and Employment Service automation efforts, notwithstanding 
cost allocation principles prescribed under the Office of Management 
and Budget Circular A-87:  Provided further, That the Secretary, at the 
request of a State participating in a consortium with other States, may 
reallot funds allotted to such State under title III of the Social 
Security Act to other States participating in the consortium in order 
to carry out activities that benefit the administration of the 
unemployment compensation law of the State making the request:  
Provided further, That the Secretary may collect fees for the costs 
associated with additional data collection, analyses, and reporting 
services relating to the National Agricultural Workers Survey requested 
by State and local governments, public and private institutions of 
higher education, and non-profit organizations and may utilize such 
sums, in accordance with the provisions of 29 U.S.C. 9a, for the 
National Agricultural Workers Survey infrastructure, methodology, and 
data to meet the information collection and reporting needs of such 
entities, which shall be credited to this appropriation and shall 
remain available until September 30, 2016, for such purposes.
     In addition, $25,000,000 from the Employment Security 
Administration Account of the Unemployment Trust Fund shall be 
available for in-person reemployment and eligibility assessments and 
unemployment insurance improper payment reviews and to provide 
reemployment services and referrals to training as appropriate, which 
shall be available for Federal obligations through December 31, 2015, 
and for State obligation through September 30, 2017.

                         state paid leave fund

    For grants and contracts to assist in the start-up of new paid 
leave programs in the States, $5,000,000.

        advances to the unemployment trust fund and other funds

    For repayable advances to the Unemployment Trust Fund as authorized 
by sections 905(d) and 1203 of the Social Security Act, and to the 
Black Lung Disability Trust Fund as authorized by section 9501(c)(1) of 
the Internal Revenue Code of 1986; and for nonrepayable advances to the 
revolving fund established by section 901(e) of the Social Security 
Act, to the Unemployment Trust Fund as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 8509, and 
to the ``Federal Unemployment Benefits and Allowances'' account, such 
sums as may be necessary, which shall be available for obligation 
through September 30, 2016.

                         program administration

    For expenses of administering employment and training programs, 
$106,505,000, together with not to exceed $50,674,000 which may be 
expended from the Employment Security Administration Account in the 
Unemployment Trust Fund.

               Employee Benefits Security Administration

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses for the Employee Benefits Security 
Administration, $183,153,000.

                  Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation

               pension benefit guaranty corporation fund

    The Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation (``Corporation'') is 
authorized to make such expenditures, including financial assistance 
authorized by subtitle E of title IV of the Employee Retirement Income 
Security Act of 1974, within limits of funds and borrowing authority 
available to the Corporation, and in accord with law, and to make such 
contracts and commitments without regard to fiscal year limitations, as 
provided by 31 U.S.C. 9104, as may be necessary in carrying out the 
program, including associated administrative expenses, through 
September 30, 2015, for the Corporation:  Provided, That none of the 
funds available to the Corporation for fiscal year 2015 shall be 
available for obligations for administrative expenses in excess of 
$415,394,000:  Provided further, That to the extent that the number of 
new plan participants in plans terminated by the Corporation exceeds 
100,000 in fiscal year 2015, an amount not to exceed an additional 
$9,200,000 shall be available through September 30, 2016, for 
obligation for administrative expenses for every 20,000 additional 
terminated participants:  Provided further, That obligations in excess 
of the amounts provided in this paragraph may be incurred for 
unforeseen and extraordinary pretermination expenses or extraordinary 
multiemployer program related expenses after approval by the Office of 
Management and Budget and notification of the Committees on 
Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the Senate.

                         Wage and Hour Division

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses for the Wage and Hour Division, including 
reimbursement to State, Federal, and local agencies and their employees 
for inspection services rendered, $237,330,000.

                  Office of Labor-Management Standards

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses for the Office of Labor-Management 
Standards, $41,289,000.

             Office of Federal Contract Compliance Programs

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses for the Office of Federal Contract 
Compliance Programs, $107,903,000.

                Office of Workers' Compensation Programs

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses for the Office of Workers' Compensation 
Programs, $115,663,000, together with $2,177,000 which may be expended 
from the Special Fund in accordance with sections 39(c), 44(d), and 
44(j) of the Longshore and Harbor Workers' Compensation Act.

                            special benefits

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For the payment of compensation, benefits, and expenses (except 
administrative expenses) accruing during the current or any prior 
fiscal year authorized by 5 U.S.C. 81; continuation of benefits as 
provided for under the heading ``Civilian War Benefits'' in the Federal 
Security Agency Appropriation Act, 1947; the Employees' Compensation 
Commission Appropriation Act, 1944; sections 4(c) and 5(f) of the War 
Claims Act of 1948; and 50 percent of the additional compensation and 
benefits required by section 10(h) of the Longshore and Harbor Workers' 
Compensation Act, $210,000,000, together with such amounts as may be 
necessary to be charged to the subsequent year appropriation for the 
payment of compensation and other benefits for any period subsequent to 
August 15 of the current year:  Provided, That amounts appropriated may 
be used under 5 U.S.C. 8104 by the Secretary to reimburse an employer, 
who is not the employer at the time of injury, for portions of the 
salary of a re-employed, disabled beneficiary:  Provided further, That 
balances of reimbursements unobligated on September 30, 2014, shall 
remain available until expended for the payment of compensation, 
benefits, and expenses:  Provided further, That in addition there shall 
be transferred to this appropriation from the Postal Service and from 
any other corporation or instrumentality required under 5 U.S.C. 
8147(c) to pay an amount for its fair share of the cost of 
administration, such sums as the Secretary determines to be the cost of 
administration for employees of such fair share entities through 
September 30, 2015:  Provided further, That of those funds transferred 
to this account from the fair share entities to pay the cost of 
administration of the Federal Employees' Compensation Act, $60,334,000 
shall be made available to the Secretary as follows:
            (1) For enhancement and maintenance of automated data 
        processing systems operations and telecommunications systems, 
        $19,499,000;
            (2) For automated workload processing operations, including 
        document imaging, centralized mail intake, and medical bill 
        processing, $22,968,000;
            (3) For periodic roll disability management and medical 
        review, $16,482,000;
            (4) For program integrity, $1,385,000; and
            (5) The remaining funds shall be paid into the Treasury as 
        miscellaneous receipts:
  Provided further, That the Secretary may require that any person 
filing a notice of injury or a claim for benefits under 5 U.S.C. 81, or 
the Longshore and Harbor Workers' Compensation Act, provide as part of 
such notice and claim, such identifying information (including Social 
Security account number) as such regulations may prescribe.

               special benefits for disabled coal miners

    For carrying out title IV of the Federal Mine Safety and Health Act 
of 1977, as amended by Public Law 107-275, $77,262,000, to remain 
available until expended.
    For making after July 31 of the current fiscal year, benefit 
payments to individuals under title IV of such Act, for costs incurred 
in the current fiscal year, such amounts as may be necessary.
    For making benefit payments under title IV for the first quarter of 
fiscal year 2016, $21,000,000, to remain available until expended.

    administrative expenses, energy employees occupational illness 
                           compensation fund

    For necessary expenses to administer the Energy Employees 
Occupational Illness Compensation Program Act, $56,406,000, to remain 
available until expended:  Provided, That the Secretary may require 
that any person filing a claim for benefits under the Act provide as 
part of such claim such identifying information (including Social 
Security account number) as may be prescribed.

                    black lung disability trust fund

                     (including transfer of funds)

    Such sums as may be necessary from the Black Lung Disability Trust 
Fund (the ``Fund''), to remain available until expended, for payment of 
all benefits authorized by section 9501(d) (1), (2), (6), and (7) of 
the Internal Revenue Code of 1986; and repayment of, and payment of 
interest on advances, as authorized by section 9501(d)(4) of that Act. 
In addition, the following amounts may be expended from the Fund for 
fiscal year 2015 for expenses of operation and administration of the 
Black Lung Benefits program, as authorized by section 9501(d)(5): not 
to exceed $33,321,000 for transfer to the Office of Workers' 
Compensation Programs, ``Salaries and Expenses''; not to exceed 
$30,403,000 for transfer to Departmental Management, ``Salaries and 
Expenses''; not to exceed $327,000 for transfer to Departmental 
Management, ``Office of Inspector General''; and not to exceed $356,000 
for payments into miscellaneous receipts for the expenses of the 
Department of the Treasury.

             Occupational Safety and Health Administration

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses for the Occupational Safety and Health 
Administration, $564,788,000, including not to exceed $104,196,000 
which shall be the maximum amount available for grants to States under 
section 23(g) of the Occupational Safety and Health Act (the ``Act''), 
which grants shall be no less than 50 percent of the costs of State 
occupational safety and health programs required to be incurred under 
plans approved by the Secretary under section 18 of the Act; and, in 
addition, notwithstanding 31 U.S.C. 3302, the Occupational Safety and 
Health Administration may retain up to $499,000 per fiscal year of 
training institute course tuition and fees, otherwise authorized by law 
to be collected, and may utilize such sums for occupational safety and 
health training and education:  Provided, That notwithstanding 31 
U.S.C. 3302, the Secretary is authorized, during the fiscal year ending 
September 30, 2015, to collect and retain fees for services provided to 
Nationally Recognized Testing Laboratories, and may utilize such sums, 
in accordance with the provisions of 29 U.S.C. 9a, to administer 
national and international laboratory recognition programs that ensure 
the safety of equipment and products used by workers in the workplace:  
Provided further, That none of the funds appropriated under this 
paragraph shall be obligated or expended to prescribe, issue, 
administer, or enforce any standard, rule, regulation, or order under 
the Act which is applicable to any person who is engaged in a farming 
operation which does not maintain a temporary labor camp and employs 10 
or fewer employees:  Provided further, That no funds appropriated under 
this paragraph shall be obligated or expended to administer or enforce 
any standard, rule, regulation, or order under the Act with respect to 
any employer of 10 or fewer employees who is included within a category 
having a Days Away, Restricted, or Transferred (``DART'') occupational 
injury and illness rate, at the most precise industrial classification 
code for which such data are published, less than the national average 
rate as such rates are most recently published by the Secretary, acting 
through the Bureau of Labor Statistics, in accordance with section 24 
of the Act, except--
            (1) to provide, as authorized by the Act, consultation, 
        technical assistance, educational and training services, and to 
        conduct surveys and studies;
            (2) to conduct an inspection or investigation in response 
        to an employee complaint, to issue a citation for violations 
        found during such inspection, and to assess a penalty for 
        violations which are not corrected within a reasonable 
        abatement period and for any willful violations found;
            (3) to take any action authorized by the Act with respect 
        to imminent dangers;
            (4) to take any action authorized by the Act with respect 
        to health hazards;
            (5) to take any action authorized by the Act with respect 
        to a report of an employment accident which is fatal to one or 
        more employees or which results in hospitalization of two or 
        more employees, and to take any action pursuant to such 
        investigation authorized by the Act;
            (6) to take any action authorized by the Act with respect 
        to complaints of discrimination against employees for 
        exercising rights under the Act; and
            (7) to take any action authorized by the Act with respect 
        to certain employers with a low DART rate and employing 10 or 
        fewer employees within the past 12 months, that operate 
        processes where the potential for a catastrophic chemical 
        incident exists, defined as any establishment that operates a 
        process covered by OSHA's Process Safety of Highly Hazardous 
        Chemicals standard (29 CFR 1910.119) or the Environmental 
        Protection Agency's Chemical Accident Prevention Provisions (40 
        CFR 68), except that this subparagraph (7) shall not apply to 
        employers conducting farming, harvesting, or processing 
        operations on farms:
  Provided further, That the foregoing proviso shall not apply to any 
person who is engaged in a farming operation which does not maintain a 
temporary labor camp and employs 10 or fewer employees:  Provided 
further, That $10,709,000 shall be available for Susan Harwood training 
grants.

                 Mine Safety and Health Administration

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses for the Mine Safety and Health 
Administration, $376,371,000, including purchase and bestowal of 
certificates and trophies in connection with mine rescue and first-aid 
work, and the hire of passenger motor vehicles, including up to 
$2,000,000 for mine rescue and recovery activities:  Provided, That 
notwithstanding 31 U.S.C. 3302, not to exceed $750,000 may be collected 
by the National Mine Health and Safety Academy for room, board, 
tuition, and the sale of training materials, otherwise authorized by 
law to be collected, to be available for mine safety and health 
education and training activities:  Provided further, That 
notwithstanding 31 U.S.C. 3302, the Mine Safety and Health 
Administration is authorized to collect and retain up to $2,499,000 
from fees collected for the approval and certification of equipment, 
materials, and explosives for use in mines, and may utilize such sums 
for such activities:  Provided further, That notwithstanding 31 U.S.C. 
3302, the Mine Safety and Health Administration is authorized to 
collect and retain fees for services related to the analysis of rock 
dust samples, and may utilize such sums to administer such activities:  
Provided further, That the Secretary is authorized to accept lands, 
buildings, equipment, and other contributions from public and private 
sources and to prosecute projects in cooperation with other agencies, 
Federal, State, or private:  Provided further, That the Mine Safety and 
Health Administration is authorized to promote health and safety 
education and training in the mining community through cooperative 
programs with States, industry, and safety associations:  Provided 
further, That the Secretary is authorized to recognize the Joseph A. 
Holmes Safety Association as a principal safety association and, 
notwithstanding any other provision of law, may provide funds and, with 
or without reimbursement, personnel, including service of Mine Safety 
and Health Administration officials as officers in local chapters or in 
the national organization:  Provided further, That any funds available 
to the Department of Labor may be used, with the approval of the 
Secretary, to provide for the costs of mine rescue and survival 
operations in the event of a major disaster:  Provided further, That 
the Secretary may reallocate among the items funded under this heading 
up to $3,000,000 to support inspections or investigations pursuant to 
section 103 of the Federal Mine Safety and Health Act of 1977.

                       Bureau of Labor Statistics

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses for the Bureau of Labor Statistics, 
including advances or reimbursements to State, Federal, and local 
agencies and their employees for services rendered, $544,071,000, 
together with not to exceed $65,000,000 which may be expended from the 
Employment Security Administration account in the Unemployment Trust 
Fund.

                 Office of Disability Employment Policy

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses for the Office of Disability Employment 
Policy to provide leadership, develop policy and initiatives, and award 
grants furthering the objective of eliminating barriers to the training 
and employment of people with disabilities, $41,745,000.

                        Departmental Management

                         salaries and expenses

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For necessary expenses for Departmental Management, including the 
hire of three passenger motor vehicles, $341,328,000, together with not 
to exceed $308,000, which may be expended from the Employment Security 
Administration account in the Unemployment Trust Fund:  Provided, That 
$65,815,000 for the Bureau of International Labor Affairs shall be 
available for obligation through December 31, 2015:  Provided further, 
That funds available to the Bureau of International Labor Affairs may 
be used to administer or operate international labor activities, 
bilateral and multilateral technical assistance, and microfinance 
programs, by or through contracts, grants, subgrants and other 
arrangements:  Provided further, That  Provided further, That 
$8,040,000 shall be used for program evaluation and shall be available 
for obligation through September 30, 2016:  Provided further, That 
funds available for program evaluation may be transferred to any other 
appropriate account in the Department for such purpose:  Provided 
further, That the funds available to the Women's Bureau may be used for 
grants to serve and promote the interests of women in the workforce.

                    veterans employment and training

    Not to exceed $231,872,000 may be derived from the Employment 
Security Administration account in the Unemployment Trust Fund to carry 
out the provisions of chapters 41, 42, and 43 of title 38, United 
States Code, of which:
            (1) $175,000,000 is for Jobs for Veterans State grants 
        under 38 U.S.C. 4102A(b)(5) to support disabled veterans' 
        outreach program specialists under section 4103A of such title 
        and local veterans' employment representatives under section 
        4104(b) of such title, and for the expenses described in 
        section 4102A(b)(5)(C), which shall be available for obligation 
        by the States through December 31, 2015 and not to exceed 3 
        percent for the necessary Federal expenditures for data systems 
        and contract support to allow for the tracking of participant 
        and performance information:  Provided, That, in addition, such 
        funds may be used to support such specialists and 
        representatives in the provision of services to transitioning 
        members of the Armed Forces who have participated in the 
        Transition Assistance Program and have been identified as in 
        need of intensive services, to members of the Armed Forces who 
        are wounded, ill, or injured and receiving treatment in 
        military treatment facilities or warrior transition units, and 
        to the spouses or other family caregivers of such wounded, ill, 
        or injured members;
            (2) $14,000,000 is for carrying out the Transition 
        Assistance Program under 38 U.S.C. 4113 and 10 U.S.C. 1144;
            (3) $39,458,000 is for Federal administration of chapters 
        41, 42, and 43 of title 38, United States Code; and
            (4) $3,414,000 is for the National Veterans' Employment and 
        Training Services Institute under 38 U.S.C. 4109:
  Provided further, That the Secretary may reallocate among the 
appropriations provided under paragraphs (1) through (4) above an 
amount not to exceed 3 percent of the appropriation from which such 
reallocation is made.
    In addition, from the General Fund of the Treasury, $38,109,000 is 
for carrying out programs to assist homeless veterans and veterans at 
risk of homelessness who are transitioning from certain institutions 
under sections 2021, 2021A, and 2023 of title 38, United States Code:  
Provided, That notwithstanding subsections (c)(3) and (d) of section 
2023, the Secretary may award grants through September 30, 2015, to 
provide services under such section:  Provided further, That services 
provided under section 2023 may include, in addition to services to the 
individuals described in subsection (e) of such section, services to 
veterans recently released from incarceration who are at risk of 
homelessness.

                            it modernization

    For necessary expenses for Department of Labor centralized 
infrastructure technology investment activities related to support 
systems and modernization, $19,778,000.

                      office of inspector general

    For salaries and expenses of the Office of Inspector General in 
carrying out the provisions of the Inspector General Act of 1978, 
$76,721,000, together with not to exceed $5,590,000 which may be 
expended from the Employment Security Administration account in the 
Unemployment Trust Fund.

                           General Provisions

                          (transfer of funds)

    Sec. 101.  Not to exceed 1 percent of any discretionary funds 
(pursuant to the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 
1985) which are appropriated for the current fiscal year for the 
Department of Labor in this Act may be transferred between a program, 
project, or activity, but no such program, project, or activity shall 
be increased by more than 3 percent by any such transfer:  Provided, 
That the transfer authority granted by this section shall not be used 
to create any new program or to fund any project or activity for which 
no funds are provided in this Act:  Provided further, That the 
Committees on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the 
Senate are notified at least 15 days in advance of any transfer.
    Sec. 102.  In accordance with Executive Order 13126, none of the 
funds appropriated or otherwise made available pursuant to this Act 
shall be obligated or expended for the procurement of goods mined, 
produced, manufactured, or harvested or services rendered, in whole or 
in part, by forced or indentured child labor in industries and host 
countries already identified by the United States Department of Labor 
prior to enactment of this Act.
    Sec. 103.  None of the funds made available to the Department of 
Labor for grants under section 414(c) of the American Competitiveness 
and Workforce Improvement Act of 1998 may be used for any purpose other 
than competitive grants for training individuals over the age of 16 who 
are not currently enrolled in school within a local educational agency 
in the occupations and industries for which employers are using H-1B 
visas to hire foreign workers, and the related activities necessary to 
support such training:  Provided, That the preceding limitation shall 
not apply to funding provided pursuant to solicitations for grant 
applications issued prior to January 15, 2014.
    Sec. 104.  None of the funds made available by this Act under the 
heading ``Employment and Training Administration'' shall be used by a 
recipient or subrecipient of such funds to pay the salary and bonuses 
of an individual, either as direct costs or any proration as an 
indirect cost, at a rate in excess of Executive Level II. This 
limitation shall not apply to vendors providing goods and services as 
defined in Office of Management and Budget Circular A-133. Where States 
are recipients of such funds, States may establish a lower limit for 
salaries and bonuses of those receiving salaries and bonuses from 
subrecipients of such funds, taking into account factors including the 
relative cost-of-living in the State, the compensation levels for 
comparable State or local government employees, and the size of the 
organizations that administer Federal programs involved including 
Employment and Training Administration programs.

                     (including transfer of funds)

    Sec. 105.  Notwithstanding section 101, the Secretary may transfer 
funds made available to the Employment and Training Administration by 
this Act, either directly or through a set-aside, for technical 
assistance services to grantees to ``Program Administration'' when it 
is determined that those services will be more efficiently performed by 
Federal employees:  Provided, That this section shall not apply to 
section 171 of the WIOA.

                     (including transfer of funds)

    Sec. 106. (a) The Secretary may reserve not more than 0.5 percent 
from each appropriation made available in this Act identified in 
subsection (b) in order to carry out evaluations of any of the programs 
or activities that are funded under such accounts. Any funds reserved 
under this section shall be transferred to ``Departmental Management'' 
for use by the Office of the Chief Evaluation Officer within the 
Department of Labor, and shall be available for obligation through 
September 30, 2016:  Provided, That such funds shall only be available 
if the Chief Evaluation Officer of the Department of Labor submits a 
plan to the Committees on Appropriations of the House of 
Representatives and the Senate describing the evaluations to be carried 
out 15 days in advance of any transfer.
    (b) The accounts referred to in subsection (a) are: ``Training and 
Employment Services'', ``Job Corps'', ``Community Service Employment 
for Older Americans'', ``State Unemployment Insurance and Employment 
Service Operations'', ``Employee Benefits Security Administration'', 
``Office of Workers' Compensation Programs'', ``Wage and Hour 
Division'', ``Office of Federal Contract Compliance Programs'', 
``Office of Labor Management Standards'', ``Occupational Safety and 
Health Administration'', ``Mine Safety and Health Administration'', 
funding made available to the ``Bureau of International Affairs'' and 
``Women's Bureau'' within the ``Departmental Management, Salaries and 
Expenses'' account, and ``Veterans Employment and Training''.
    Sec. 107.  The Secretary shall continue to be consulted by the 
Secretary of Homeland Security, in fiscal year 2015 and thereafter, on 
the question of importing any nonimmigrant under the H-2B program, and 
the Secretary of Labor is continued to be authorized as part of that 
consultation to issue labor market determinations, including temporary 
labor certifications, and to establish regulations and policies for 
such issuance, including determining the appropriate prevailing wage 
rates for occupations in which H-2B nonimmigrants will be employed.
    Sec. 108.  None of the funds made available by this Act may be used 
by the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation to take any action in 
connection with any asserted liability under subsection (e) of section 
4062 of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974.

                     (including transfer of funds)

    Sec. 109. (a) The Secretary may reserve not more than 0.25 percent 
from each appropriation made available in this Act identified in 
subsection (b) in order to carry out information technology purchases 
and upgrades for any of the programs or activities that are funded 
under such accounts. Any funds reserved under this section shall be 
transferred to ``Departmental Management'' for use by the Office of the 
Chief Information Officer within the Department of Labor, and shall be 
available for obligation through September 30, 2016:  Provided, That 
such funds shall only be available if the Chief Information Officer of 
the Department of Labor submits a plan to the Committees on 
Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the Senate 
describing the purchases and upgrades to be carried out and an 
explanation of why funds are not needed in the donor account 15 days in 
advance of any transfer.
    (b) The accounts referred to in subsection (a) are: ``Employment 
and Training Administration Program Administration'', funding made 
available for Federal administration within ``Job Corps'', ``Foreign 
Labor Certification Program Administration'', ``Employee Benefits 
Security Administration'', ``Office of Workers' Compensation 
Programs'', ``Wage and Hour Division'', ``Office of Federal Contract 
Compliance Programs'', ``Office of Labor Management Standards'', 
``Occupational Safety and Health Administration'', ``Mine Safety and 
Health Administration'', ``Veterans Employment and Training'', ``Bureau 
of Labor Statistics'', and ``Office of Disability Employment Policy''.
    This title may be cited as the ``Department of Labor Appropriations 
Act, 2015''.

                                TITLE II

                DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES

              Health Resources and Services Administration

                          primary health care

    For carrying out titles II and III of the Public Health Service Act 
(referred to in this Act as the ``PHS Act'') with respect to primary 
health care and the Native Hawaiian Health Care Act of 1988, 
$1,491,522,000:  Provided, That no more than $40,000 shall be available 
until expended for carrying out the provisions of section 224(o) of the 
PHS Act, including associated administrative expenses and relevant 
evaluations:  Provided further, That no more than $99,893,000 shall be 
available until expended for carrying out the provisions of Public Law 
104-73 and for expenses incurred by the Department of Health and Human 
Services (referred to in this Act as ``HHS'') pertaining to 
administrative claims made under such law:  Provided further, That of 
funds provided for the Health Centers program, as defined by section 
330 of the PHS Act, by this Act or any other Act for fiscal year 2015, 
not less than $140,000,000 shall be obligated in fiscal year 2015 as 
base grant adjustments, not less than $1,000,000,000 shall be obligated 
in fiscal year 2015 to support new access points including approved and 
unfunded applications from fiscal year 2014, grants to expand medical 
services, behavioral health, oral health, pharmacy, and vision 
services, and up to $210,000,000 shall be obligated in fiscal year 2015 
for construction, and quality and capital improvement costs.

                            health workforce

    For carrying out titles III, VII, and VIII of the PHS Act with 
respect to the health workforce, section 1128E of the Social Security 
Act, and the Health Care Quality Improvement Act of 1986, $866,257,000: 
 Provided, That $100,000,000, to remain available until expended, shall 
be for the National Health Service Corp Program;  Provided further, 
That sections 747(c)(2), 751(j)(2), 762(k), and the proportional 
funding amounts in paragraphs (1) through (4) of section 756(e) of the 
PHS Act shall not apply to funds made available under this heading:  
Provided further, That for any program operating under section 751 of 
the PHS Act on or before January 1, 2009, the Secretary may hereafter 
waive any of the requirements contained in sections 751(d)(2)(A) and 
751(d)(2)(B) of such Act for the full project period of a grant under 
such section:  Provided further, That no funds shall be available for 
Section 340G-1 of the PHS Act:  Provided further, That fees collected 
for the disclosure of information under section 427(b) of the Health 
Care Quality Improvement Act of 1986 and sections 1128E(d)(2) and 1921 
of the Social Security Act shall be sufficient to recover the full 
costs of operating the programs authorized by such sections and shall 
remain available until expended for the National Practitioner Data 
Bank:  Provided further, That funds transferred to this account to 
carry out section 846 and subpart 3 of part D of title III of the PHS 
Act may be used to make prior year adjustments to awards made under 
such sections.

                       maternal and child health

    For carrying out titles III, XI, XII, and XIX of the PHS Act with 
respect to maternal and child health, title V of the Social Security 
Act, and section 712 of the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004, 
$855,785,000:  Provided, That notwithstanding sections 502(a)(1) and 
502(b)(1) of the Social Security Act, not more than $77,093,000 shall 
be available for carrying out special projects of regional and national 
significance pursuant to section 501(a)(2) of such Act and $10,276,000 
shall be available for projects described in paragraphs (A) through (F) 
of section 501(a)(3) of such Act.

                      ryan white hiv/aids program

    For carrying out title XXVI of the PHS Act with respect to the Ryan 
White HIV/AIDS program, $2,367,178,000, of which $2,026,898,000 shall 
remain available to the Secretary through September 30, 2017, for parts 
A and B of title XXVI of the PHS Act, and of which not less than 
$933,299,000 shall be for State AIDS Drug Assistance Programs under the 
authority of section 2616 or 311(c) of such Act.

                          health care systems

    For carrying out titles III and XII of the PHS Act with respect to 
health care systems, and the Stem Cell Therapeutic and Research Act of 
2005, $103,524,000, of which $122,000 shall be available until expended 
for facilities renovations at the Gillis W. Long Hansen's Disease 
Center:  Provided, That the Secretary may collect a fee of 0.1 percent 
of each purchase of 340B drugs from entities participating in the Drug 
Pricing Program pursuant to section 340B of the PHS Act to pay for the 
operating costs of such program:  Provided further, That fees pursuant 
to the 340B Drug Pricing Program shall be collected by the Secretary 
based on sales data that shall be submitted by drug manufacturers and 
shall be credited to this account, to remain available until expended.

                              rural health

    For carrying out titles III and IV of the PHS Act with respect to 
rural health, section 427(a) of the Federal Coal Mine Health and Safety 
Act, the Cardiac Arrest Survival Act of 2000, and sections 711 and 1820 
of the Social Security Act, $143,983,000, of which $40,507,000 from 
general revenues, notwithstanding section 1820(j) of the Social 
Security Act, shall be available for carrying out the Medicare rural 
hospital flexibility grants program:  Provided, That of the funds made 
available under this heading for Medicare rural hospital flexibility 
grants, $14,942,000 shall be available for the Small Rural Hospital 
Improvement Grant Program for quality improvement and adoption of 
health information technology and up to $1,000,000 shall be to carry 
out section 1820(g)(6) of the Social Security Act, with funds provided 
for grants under section 1820(g)(6) available for the purchase and 
implementation of telehealth services, including pilots and 
demonstrations on the use of electronic health records to coordinate 
rural veterans care between rural providers and the Department of 
Veterans Affairs electronic health record system:  Provided further, 
That notwithstanding section 338J(k) of the PHS Act, $9,487,000 shall 
be available for State Offices of Rural Health.

                            family planning

    For carrying out the program under title X of the PHS Act to 
provide for voluntary family planning projects, $300,000,000:  
Provided, That amounts provided to said projects under such title shall 
not be expended for abortions, that all pregnancy counseling shall be 
nondirective, and that such amounts shall not be expended for any 
activity (including the publication or distribution of literature) that 
in any way tends to promote public support or opposition to any 
legislative proposal or candidate for public office.

                           program management

    For program support in the Health Resources and Services 
Administration, $154,677,000:  Provided, That funds made available 
under this heading may be used to supplement program support funding 
provided under the headings ``Primary Health Care'', ``Health 
Workforce'', ``Maternal and Child Health'', ``Ryan White HIV/AIDS 
Program'', ``Health Care Systems'', and ``Rural Health''.

             vaccine injury compensation program trust fund

    For payments from the Vaccine Injury Compensation Program Trust 
Fund (the ``Trust Fund''), such sums as may be necessary for claims 
associated with vaccine-related injury or death with respect to 
vaccines administered after September 30, 1988, pursuant to subtitle 2 
of title XXI of the PHS Act, to remain available until expended:  
Provided, That for necessary administrative expenses, not to exceed 
$7,500,000 shall be available from the Trust Fund to the Secretary.

               Centers for Disease Control and Prevention

                 immunization and respiratory diseases

    For carrying out titles II, III, XVII, and XXI, and section 2821 of 
the PHS Act, titles II and IV of the Immigration and Nationality Act, 
and section 501 of the Refugee Education Assistance Act, with respect 
to immunization and respiratory diseases, $638,435,000.

     hiv/aids, viral hepatitis, sexually transmitted diseases, and 
                        tuberculosis prevention

    For carrying out titles II, III, XVII, and XXIII of the PHS Act 
with respect to HIV/AIDS, viral hepatitis, sexually transmitted 
diseases, and tuberculosis prevention, $1,117,689,000.

               emerging and zoonotic infectious diseases

    For carrying out titles II, III, and XVII, and section 2821 of the 
PHS Act, titles II and IV of the Immigration and Nationality Act, and 
section 501 of the Refugee Education Assistance Act, with respect to 
emerging and zoonotic infectious diseases, $361,873,000:  Provided, 
That of the amounts available to pay for the transportation, medical 
care, treatment, and other related costs of persons quarantined or 
isolated under Federal or State quarantine law, up to $1,000,000 shall 
remain available until expended.

            chronic disease prevention and health promotion

    For carrying out titles II, III, XI, XV, XVII, and XIX of the PHS 
Act with respect to chronic disease prevention and health promotion, 
$769,299,000:  Provided, That funds appropriated under this account may 
be available for making grants under section 1509 of the PHS Act for 
not less than 21 States, tribes, or tribal organizations:  Provided 
further, That of the funds available under this heading, $5,000,000 
shall be available to continue and expand community specific extension 
and outreach programs to combat obesity in counties with the highest 
levels of obesity:  Provided further, That of the funds provided under 
this heading, $90,000,000 shall be available for a program consisting 
of three-year grants of no less than $100,000 per year to non-
governmental entities, local public health offices, school districts, 
local housing authorities, local transportation authorities or Indian 
tribes to implement evidence-based chronic disease prevention 
strategies:  Provided further, That applicants for grants described in 
the previous proviso shall determine the population to be served and 
shall agree to work in collaboration with multi-sector partners:  
Provided further, That the proportional funding requirements under 
section 1503(a) of the PHS Act shall not apply to funds made available 
under this heading.

   birth defects, developmental disabilities, disabilities and health

    For carrying out titles II, III, XI, and XVII of the PHS Act with 
respect to birth defects, developmental disabilities, disabilities and 
health, $131,587,000.

                   public health scientific services

    For carrying out titles II, III, and XVII of the PHS Act with 
respect to health statistics, surveillance, health informatics, and 
workforce development, $484,650,000.

                          environmental health

    For carrying out titles II, III, and XVII of the PHS Act with 
respect to environmental health, $169,584,000.

                     injury prevention and control

    For carrying out titles II, III, and XVII of the PHS Act with 
respect to injury prevention and control, $192,973,000.

         national institute for occupational safety and health

    For carrying out titles II, III, and XVII of the PHS Act, sections 
101, 102, 103, 201, 202, 203, 301, and 501 of the Federal Mine Safety 
and Health Act, section 13 of the Mine Improvement and New Emergency 
Response Act, and sections 20, 21, and 22 of the Occupational Safety 
and Health Act, with respect to occupational safety and health, 
$220,363,000:  Provided, That in addition to amounts provided herein, 
$112,000,000 shall be available from amounts available under section 
241 of the PHS Act.

       energy employees occupational illness compensation program

    For necessary expenses to administer the Energy Employees 
Occupational Illness Compensation Program Act, $55,358,000, to remain 
available until expended:  Provided, That this amount shall be 
available consistent with the provision regarding administrative 
expenses in section 151(b) of division B, title I of Public Law 106-
554.

                             global health

    For carrying out titles II, III, and XVII of the PHS Act with 
respect to global health, $498,670,000, of which $128,420,000 for 
international HIV/AIDS shall remain available through September 30, 
2016, and of which $5,000,000 shall remain available through September 
30, 2016, to support national public health institutes:  Provided, That 
funds may be used for purchase and insurance of official motor vehicles 
in foreign countries:  Provided further, That $30,000,000 provided 
under this heading is for expenses necessary to respond to Ebola 
outbreaks and other emerging infectious diseases:  Provided further, 
That with respect to the previous proviso, the Director may transfer 
these resources to any of the accounts of CDC for Ebola and other 
emerging infectious disease response activities:  Provided further, 
That the Committees on Appropriations of the House of Representatives 
and the Senate shall be notified promptly of any transfers made under 
the authority of the previous proviso, and shall receive a report 
within 15 days of such transfers:  Provided further, That such transfer 
authority shall be in addition to any other transfer authority provided 
to the Department of Health and Human Services.

                public health preparedness and response

    For carrying out titles II, III, and XVII of the PHS Act with 
respect to public health preparedness and response, and for expenses 
necessary to support activities related to countering potential 
biological, nuclear, radiological, and chemical threats to civilian 
populations, $1,369,025,000, of which $542,817,000 shall remain 
available until expended for the Strategic National Stockpile:  
Provided, That in the event the Director of the CDC activates the 
Emergency Operations Center, the Director of the CDC may detail CDC 
staff without reimbursement for up to 45 days to support the work of 
the CDC Emergency Operations Center, so long as the Director provides a 
notice to the Committees on Appropriations of the House of 
Representatives and the Senate within 15 days of the use of this 
authority and a full report within 30 days after use of this authority 
which includes the number of staff and funding level broken down by the 
originating center and number of days detailed.

                cdc-wide activities and program support

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For carrying out titles II, III, XVII and XIX, and section 2821 of 
the PHS Act and for cross-cutting activities and program support that 
supplement activities funded under the headings ``Immunization and 
Respiratory Diseases'', ``HIV/AIDS, Viral Hepatitis, Sexually 
Transmitted Diseases, and Tuberculosis Prevention'', ``Emerging and 
Zoonotic Infectious Diseases'', ``Chronic Disease Prevention and Health 
Promotion'', ``Birth Defects, Developmental Disabilities, Disabilities 
and Health'', ``Environmental Health'', ``Injury Prevention and 
Control'', ``National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health'', 
``Energy Employees Occupational Illness Compensation Program'', 
``Global Health'', ``Public Health Preparedness and Response'', and 
``Public Health Scientific Services'', and for carrying out section 
4001 of Public Law 111-148, $123,570,000, of which $10,000,000 shall be 
available until September 30, 2019, for acquisition of real property, 
equipment, construction and renovation of facilities:  Provided, That 
paragraphs (1) through (3) of subsection (b) of section 2821 of the PHS 
Act shall not apply to funds appropriated under this heading and in all 
other accounts of the CDC:  Provided further,office for  That funds 
appropriated under this heading and in all other accounts of CDC may be 
used to support the purchase, hire, maintenance, and operation of 
aircraft for use and support of the activities of CDC:  Provided 
further, That employees of CDC or the Public Health Service, both 
civilian and commissioned officers, detailed to States, municipalities, 
or other organizations under authority of section 214 of the PHS Act, 
or in overseas assignments, shall be treated as non-Federal employees 
for reporting purposes only and shall not be included within any 
personnel ceiling applicable to the Agency, Service, or HHS during the 
period of detail or assignment:  Provided further, That CDC may use up 
to $10,000 from amounts appropriated to CDC in this Act for official 
reception and representation expenses when specifically approved by the 
Director of CDC:  Provided further, That in addition, such sums as may 
be derived from authorized user fees, which shall be credited to the 
appropriation charged with the cost thereof:  Provided further, That 
with respect to the previous proviso, authorized user fees from the 
Vessel Sanitation Program shall be available through September 30, 
2016:  Provided further,  That of the funds made available under this 
heading and in all other accounts of CDC, up to $1,000 per eligible 
employee of CDC shall be made available until expended for Individual 
Learning Accounts.

                     National Institutes of Health

                       national cancer institute

    For carrying out section 301 and title IV of the PHS Act with 
respect to cancer, $5,033,006,000, of which up to $8,000,000 may be 
used for facilities repairs and improvements at the National Cancer 
Institute--Frederick Federally Funded Research and Development Center 
in Frederick, Maryland.

               national heart, lung, and blood institute

    For carrying out section 301 and title IV of the PHS Act with 
respect to cardiovascular, lung, and blood diseases, and blood and 
blood products, $3,040,381,000.

         national institute of dental and craniofacial research

    For carrying out section 301 and title IV of the PHS Act with 
respect to dental and craniofacial diseases, $404,774,000.

    national institute of diabetes and digestive and kidney diseases

    For carrying out section 301 and title IV of the PHS Act with 
respect to diabetes and digestive and kidney disease, $1,775,538,000.

        national institute of neurological disorders and stroke

    For carrying out section 301 and title IV of the PHS Act with 
respect to neurological disorders and stroke, $1,618,183,000.

         national institute of allergy and infectious diseases

    For carrying out section 301 and title IV of the PHS Act with 
respect to allergy and infectious diseases, $4,477,618,000.

             national institute of general medical sciences

    For carrying out section 301 and title IV of the PHS Act with 
respect to general medical sciences, $2,413,186,000, of which 
$808,200,000 shall be from funds available under section 241 of the PHS 
Act:  Provided, That not less than $275,406,000 is provided for the 
Institutional Development Awards program.

  eunice kennedy shriver national institute of child health and human 
                              development

    For carrying out section 301 and title IV of the PHS Act with 
respect to child health and human development, $1,305,583,000.

                         national eye institute

    For carrying out section 301 and title IV of the PHS Act with 
respect to eye diseases and visual disorders, $687,270,000.

          national institute of environmental health sciences

    For carrying out section 301 and title IV of the PHS Act with 
respect to environmental health sciences, $677,366,000.

                      national institute on aging

    For carrying out section 301 and title IV of the PHS Act with 
respect to aging, $1,275,235,000.

 national institute of arthritis and musculoskeletal and skin diseases

    For carrying out section 301 and title IV of the PHS Act with 
respect to arthritis and musculoskeletal and skin diseases, 
$529,375,000.

    national institute on deafness and other communication disorders

    For carrying out section 301 and title IV of the PHS Act with 
respect to deafness and other communication disorders, $411,292,000.

                 national institute of nursing research

    For carrying out section 301 and title IV of the PHS Act with 
respect to nursing research, $143,035,000.

           national institute on alcohol abuse and alcoholism

    For carrying out section 301 and title IV of the PHS Act with 
respect to alcohol abuse and alcoholism, $454,020,000.

                    national institute on drug abuse

    For carrying out section 301 and title IV of the PHS Act with 
respect to drug abuse, $1,042,620,000.

                  national institute of mental health

    For carrying out section 301 and title IV of the PHS Act with 
respect to mental health, $1,448,418,000.

                national human genome research institute

    For carrying out section 301 and title IV of the PHS Act with 
respect to human genome research, $506,735,000.

      national institute of biomedical imaging and bioengineering

    For carrying out section 301 and title IV of the PHS Act with 
respect to biomedical imaging and bioengineering research, 
$334,674,000.

        national center for complementary and integrative health

    For carrying out section 301 and title IV of the PHS Act with 
respect to complementary and integrative health, $126,524,000:  
Provided, That these funds may be used to support the transition 
enacted in section 223 of this Act.

      national institute on minority health and health disparities

    For carrying out section 301 and title IV of the PHS Act with 
respect to minority health and health disparities research, 
$273,131,000.

                  john e. fogarty international center

    For carrying out the activities of the John E. Fogarty 
International Center (described in subpart 2 of part E of title IV of 
the PHS Act), $69,029,000.

                      national library of medicine

    For carrying out section 301 and title IV of the PHS Act with 
respect to health information communications, $342,355,000:  Provided, 
That of the amounts available for improvement of information systems, 
$4,000,000 shall be available until September 30, 2016:  Provided 
further, That in fiscal year 2015, the National Library of Medicine may 
enter into personal services contracts for the provision of services in 
facilities owned, operated, or constructed under the jurisdiction of 
the National Institutes of Health (referred to in this title as 
``NIH'').

          national center for advancing translational sciences

    For carrying out section 301 and title IV of the PHS Act with 
respect to translational sciences, $655,314,000:  Provided, That up to 
$29,810,000 shall be available to implement section 480 of the PHS Act, 
relating to the Cures Acceleration Network:  Provided further, That at 
least $474,746,000 is provided to the Clinical and Translational 
Sciences Awards program.

                         office of the director

    For carrying out the responsibilities of the Office of the 
Director, NIH, $1,457,414,000, of which up to $30,000,000 may be used 
to carry out section 213 of this Act:  Provided, That funding shall be 
available for the purchase of not to exceed 29 passenger motor vehicles 
for replacement only:  Provided further, That NIH is authorized to 
collect third-party payments for the cost of clinical services that are 
incurred in NIH research facilities and that such payments shall be 
credited to the NIH Management Fund:  Provided further, That all funds 
credited to the NIH Management Fund shall remain available for one 
fiscal year after the fiscal year in which they are deposited:  
Provided further, That $165,000,000 shall be for the National 
Children's Study (``NCS''), except that not later than July 15, 2015, 
the Director shall estimate the amount needed for the NCS during fiscal 
year 2015, and any funds in excess of the estimated need shall be 
transferred to and merged with the accounts for the various Institutes 
and Centers in proportion to their shares of total NIH appropriations 
made by this Act:  Provided further, That $564,039,000 shall be 
available for the Common Fund established under section 402A(c)(1) of 
the PHS Act:  Provided further, That of the funds provided $10,000 
shall be for official reception and representation expenses when 
specifically approved by the Director of the NIH:  Provided further, 
That the Office of AIDS Research within the Office of the Director of 
the NIH may spend up to $8,000,000 to make grants for construction or 
renovation of facilities as provided for in section 2354(a)(5)(B) of 
the PHS Act.

                        buildings and facilities

    For the study of, construction or demolition of, renovation of, and 
acquisition of equipment for, facilities of or used by NIH, including 
the acquisition of real property, $129,385,000, to remain available 
through September 30, 2019.

       Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration

                             mental health

    For carrying out titles III, V, and XIX of the PHS Act with respect 
to mental health, and the Protection and Advocacy for Individuals with 
Mental Illness Act, $1,047,648,000:  Provided, That notwithstanding 
section 520A(f)(2) of the PHS Act, no funds appropriated for carrying 
out section 520A shall be available for carrying out section 1971 of 
the PHS Act:  Provided further, That in addition to amounts provided 
herein, $21,039,000 shall be available under section 241 of the PHS Act 
to carry out subpart I of part B of title XIX of the PHS Act to fund 
section 1920(b) technical assistance, national data, data collection 
and evaluation activities, and further that the total available under 
this Act for section 1920(b) activities shall not exceed 5 percent of 
the amounts appropriated for subpart I of part B of title XIX:  
Provided further, That section 520E(b)(2) of the PHS Act shall not 
apply to funds appropriated in this Act for fiscal year 2015:  Provided 
further, That of the amount appropriated under this heading, 
$45,887,000 shall be for the National Child Traumatic Stress Initiative 
as described in section 582 of the PHS Act:  Provided further, That 
notwithstanding section 565(b)(1) of the PHS Act, technical assistance 
may be provided to a public entity to establish or operate a system of 
comprehensive community mental health services to children with a 
serious emotional disturbance, without regard to whether the public 
entity receives a grant under section 561(a) of such Act:  Provided 
further, That States shall expend at least 5 percent of the amount each 
receives for carrying out section 1911 of the PHS Act to support 
evidence-based programs that address the needs of individuals with 
early serious mental illness, including psychotic disorders, regardless 
of the age of the individual at onset:  Provided further, That none of 
the funds provided for section 1911 of the PHS Act shall be subject to 
section 241 of such Act.

                        substance abuse treatment

    For carrying out titles III, V, and XIX of the PHS Act with respect 
to substance abuse treatment and section 1922(a) of the PHS Act with 
respect to substance abuse prevention, $2,063,229,000:  Provided, That 
in addition to amounts provided herein, the following amounts shall be 
available under section 241 of the PHS Act: (1) $79,200,000 to carry 
out subpart II of part B of title XIX of the PHS Act to fund section 
1935(b) technical assistance, national data, data collection and 
evaluation activities, and further that the total available under this 
Act for section 1935(b) activities shall not exceed 5 percent of the 
amounts appropriated for subpart II of part B of title XIX; and (2) 
$2,000,000 to evaluate substance abuse treatment programs:  Provided 
further, That none of the funds provided for section 1921 of the PHS 
Act shall be subject to section 241 of such Act.

                       substance abuse prevention

    For carrying out titles III and V of the PHS Act with respect to 
substance abuse prevention, $185,956,000.

                health surveillance and program support

    For program support and cross-cutting activities that supplement 
activities funded under the headings ``Mental Health'', ``Substance 
Abuse Treatment'', and ``Substance Abuse Prevention'' in carrying out 
titles III, V, and XIX of the PHS Act and the Protection and Advocacy 
for Individuals with Mental Illness Act in the Substance Abuse and 
Mental Health Services Administration, $151,909,000:  Provided, That in 
addition to amounts provided herein, $31,428,000 shall be available 
under section 241 of the PHS Act to supplement funds available to carry 
out national surveys on drug abuse and mental health, to collect and 
analyze program data, and to conduct public awareness and technical 
assistance activities:  Provided further, That, in addition, fees may 
be collected for the costs of publications, data, data tabulations, and 
data analysis completed under title V of the PHS Act and provided to a 
public or private entity upon request, which shall be credited to this 
appropriation and shall remain available until expended for such 
purposes:  Provided further, That amounts made available in this Act 
for carrying out section 501(m) of the PHS Act shall remain available 
through September 30, 2016:  Provided further, That funds made 
available under this heading may be used to supplement program support 
funding provided under the headings ``Mental Health'', ``Substance 
Abuse Treatment'', and ``Substance Abuse Prevention''.

               Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality

                    healthcare research and quality

    For carrying out titles III and IX of the PHS Act, part A of title 
XI of the Social Security Act, and section 1013 of the Medicare 
Prescription Drug, Improvement, and Modernization Act of 2003, 
$373,295,000:  Provided, That section 947(c) of the PHS Act shall not 
apply in fiscal year 2015:  Provided further, That in addition, amounts 
received from Freedom of Information Act fees, reimbursable and 
interagency agreements, and the sale of data shall be credited to this 
appropriation and shall remain available until September 30, 2016.

               Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services

                     grants to states for medicaid

    For carrying out, except as otherwise provided, titles XI and XIX 
of the Social Security Act, $234,608,916,000, to remain available until 
expended.
    For making, after May 31, 2015, payments to States under title XIX 
or in the case of section 1928 on behalf of States under title XIX of 
the Social Security Act for the last quarter of fiscal year 2015 for 
unanticipated costs incurred for the current fiscal year, such sums as 
may be necessary.
    For making payments to States or in the case of section 1928 on 
behalf of States under title XIX of the Social Security Act for the 
first quarter of fiscal year 2016, $113,272,140,000, to remain 
available until expended.
    Payment under such title XIX may be made for any quarter with 
respect to a State plan or plan amendment in effect during such 
quarter, if submitted in or prior to such quarter and approved in that 
or any subsequent quarter.

                  payments to health care trust funds

    For payment to the Federal Hospital Insurance Trust Fund and the 
Federal Supplementary Medical Insurance Trust Fund, as provided under 
sections 217(g), 1844, and 1860D-16 of the Social Security Act, 
sections 103(c) and 111(d) of the Social Security Amendments of 1965, 
section 278(d)(3) of Public Law 97-248, and for administrative expenses 
incurred pursuant to section 201(g) of the Social Security Act, 
$259,212,000,000.
    In addition, for making matching payments under section 1844 and 
benefit payments under section 1860D-16 of the Social Security Act that 
were not anticipated in budget estimates, such sums as may be 
necessary.

                           program management

    For carrying out, except as otherwise provided, titles XI, XVIII, 
XIX, and XXI of the Social Security Act, titles XIII and XXVII of the 
PHS Act, the Clinical Laboratory Improvement Amendments of 1988, and 
other responsibilities of the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid 
Services, not to exceed $4,175,391,000, to be transferred from the 
Federal Hospital Insurance Trust Fund and the Federal Supplementary 
Medical Insurance Trust Fund, as authorized by section 201(g) of the 
Social Security Act; together with all funds collected in accordance 
with section 353 of the PHS Act and section 1857(e)(2) of the Social 
Security Act, funds retained by the Secretary pursuant to section 
1893(h) of the Social Security Act, and such sums as may be collected 
from authorized user fees and the sale of data, which shall be credited 
to this account and remain available until September 30, 2020:  
Provided, That all funds derived in accordance with 31 U.S.C. 9701 from 
organizations established under title XIII of the PHS Act shall be 
credited to and available for carrying out the purposes of this 
appropriation:  Provided further, That the Secretary is directed to 
collect fees in fiscal year 2015 from Medicare Advantage organizations 
pursuant to section 1857(e)(2) of the Social Security Act and from 
eligible organizations with risk-sharing contracts under section 1876 
of that Act pursuant to section 1876(k)(4)(D) of that Act.

              health care fraud and abuse control account

    In addition to amounts otherwise available for program integrity 
and program management, $672,000,000, to remain available through 
September 30, 2016, to be transferred from the Federal Hospital 
Insurance Trust Fund and the Federal Supplementary Medical Insurance 
Trust Fund, as authorized by section 201(g) of the Social Security Act, 
of which $451,339,000 shall be for the Centers for Medicare and 
Medicaid Services Program Integrity Activities, including 
administrative costs, to conduct oversight activities for the Medicare 
program, including but no limited to Medicare Advantage and the 
Medicare Prescription Drug Program authorized in title XVIII of the 
Social Security Act, and for activities described in section 1893 of 
such Act and for Medicaid and Children's Health Insurance Program 
integrity activities, of which $112,918,000 shall be for the Department 
of Health and Human Services Office of Inspector General to carry out 
fraud and abuse activities authorized by section 1817(k)(3) of such 
Act, and of which $107,743,000 shall be for the Department of Justice 
to carry out fraud and abuse activities authorized by section 
1817(k)(3) of such Act:  Provided, That of the amount provided under 
this heading, $311,000,000 is provided to meet the terms of section 
251(b)(2)(C)(ii) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control 
Act of 1985, as amended, and $361,000,000 is additional new budget 
authority specified for purposes of section 251(b)(2)(C) of such Act:  
Provided further, That the report required by section 1817(k)(5) of the 
Social Security Act for fiscal year 2015 shall include measures of the 
operational efficiency and impact on fraud, waste, and abuse in the 
Medicare, Medicaid, and CHIP programs for the funds provided by this 
appropriation.

                Administration for Children and Families

  payments to states for child support enforcement and family support 
                                programs

    For carrying out, except as otherwise provided, titles I, IV-D, X, 
XI, XIV, and XVI of the Social Security Act and the Act of July 5, 
1960, $2,438,523,000, to remain available until expended; and for such 
purposes for the first quarter of fiscal year 2016, $1,160,000,000, to 
remain available until expended.
    For carrying out, after May 31 of the current fiscal year, except 
as otherwise provided, titles I, IV-D, X, XI, XIV, and XVI of the 
Social Security Act and the Act of July 5, 1960, for the last 3 months 
of the current fiscal year for unanticipated costs, incurred for the 
current fiscal year, such sums as may be necessary.

                   low income home energy assistance

    For making payments under subsections (b) and (d) of section 2602 
of the Low Income Home Energy Assistance Act of 1981, $3,471,672,000:  
Provided, That all but $497,000,000 of this amount shall be allocated 
as though the total appropriation for such payments for fiscal year 
2015 was less than $1,975,000,000:  Provided further, That 
notwithstanding section 2609A(a), of the amounts appropriated under 
section 2602(b), not more than $2,988,000 of such amounts may be 
reserved by the Secretary for technical assistance, training, and 
monitoring of program activities for compliance with internal controls, 
policies and procedures and may, in addition to the authorities 
provided in section 2609A(a)(1), use such funds through contracts with 
private entities that do not qualify as nonprofit organizations.

                     refugee and entrant assistance

    For necessary expenses for refugee and entrant assistance 
activities authorized by section 414 of the Immigration and Nationality 
Act and section 501 of the Refugee Education Assistance Act of 1980, 
and for carrying out section 462 of the Homeland Security Act of 2002, 
section 235 of the William Wilberforce Trafficking Victims Protection 
Reauthorization Act of 2008, the Trafficking Victims Protection Act of 
2000 (``TVPA''), section 203 of the Trafficking Victims Protection 
Reauthorization Act of 2005, and the Torture Victims Relief Act of 
1998, $2,558,129,000, of which $2,525,394,000 shall remain available 
through September 30, 2017 for carrying out such sections 414, 501, 
462, and 235:  Provided, That amounts available under this heading to 
carry out such section 203 and the TVPA shall also be available for 
research and evaluation with respect to activities under those 
authorities:  Provided further, That the limitation in section 206 of 
this Act on increasing any appropriation by more than 3 percent shall 
not apply to transfers to appropriations under this heading:  Provided 
further, That a ``Refugee and Entrant Assistance Contingency Fund'' 
shall be established for which unobligated balances from appropriations 
under this heading may be deposited, to be available until expended for 
activities funded under this heading:  Provided further, That amounts 
deposited in the contingency fund may be available only after the 
Committees on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the 
Senate are notified at least 15 days in advance of the planned use of 
funds.

   payments to states for the child care and development block grant

    For carrying out the Child Care and Development Block Grant Act of 
1990 (``CCDBG Act''), $2,508,246,000 shall be used to supplement, not 
supplant State general revenue funds for child care assistance for low-
income families:  Provided, That $19,357,000 shall be available for 
child care resource and referral and school-aged child care activities, 
of which $996,000 shall be available to the Secretary for a competitive 
grant for the operation of a national toll free referral line and Web 
site to develop and disseminate child care consumer education 
information for parents and help parents access child care in their 
local community:  Provided further, That, in addition to the amounts 
required to be reserved by the States under section 658G of the CCDBG 
Act, $308,827,000 shall be reserved by the States for activities 
authorized under section 658G, of which $113,258,000 shall be for 
activities that improve the quality of infant and toddler care:  
Provided further, That $9,851,000 shall be for use by the Secretary for 
child care research, demonstration, and evaluation activities:  
Provided further, That technical assistance under section 658I(a)(3) of 
such Act may be provided directly, or through the use of contracts, 
grants, cooperative agreements, or interagency agreements.

                      social services block grant

    For making grants to States pursuant to section 2002 of the Social 
Security Act, $1,700,000,000:  Provided, That notwithstanding 
subparagraph (B) of section 404(d)(2) of such Act, the applicable 
percent specified under such subparagraph for a State to carry out 
State programs pursuant to title XX-A of such Act shall be 10 percent.

                children and families services programs

    For carrying out, except as otherwise provided, the Runaway and 
Homeless Youth Act, the Head Start Act, the Child Abuse Prevention and 
Treatment Act, sections 303 and 313 of the Family Violence Prevention 
and Services Act, the Native American Programs Act of 1974, title II of 
the Child Abuse Prevention and Treatment and Adoption Reform Act of 
1978 (adoption opportunities), the Abandoned Infants Assistance Act of 
1988, part B-1 of title IV and sections 413, 1110, and 1115 of the 
Social Security Act; for making payments under the Community Services 
Block Grant Act (``CSBG Act''), sections 473B and 477(i) of the Social 
Security Act, and the Assets for Independence Act; for necessary 
administrative expenses to carry out such Acts and titles I, IV, V, X, 
XI, XIV, XVI, and XX of the Social Security Act, the Act of July 5, 
1960, the Low Income Home Energy Assistance Act of 1981, title IV of 
the Immigration and Nationality Act, and section 501 of the Refugee 
Education Assistance Act of 1980; and for the administration of prior 
year obligations made by the Administration for Children and Families 
under the Developmental Disabilities Assistance and Bill of Rights Act 
and the Help America Vote Act of 2002, $10,618,002,000, of which 
$37,943,000, to remain available through September 30, 2016, shall be 
for grants to States for adoption incentive payments, as authorized by 
section 473A of the Social Security Act and may be made for adoptions 
completed before September 30, 2015:  Provided, That subsection (b)(5) 
of such section 473A shall apply to funds appropriated under this 
heading by substituting ``2014'' for ``2012'':  Provided further, That 
$8,868,389,000 shall be for making payments under the Head Start Act:  
Provided further, That of the amount in the previous proviso, 
$8,278,389,000 shall be available for payments under section 640 of the 
Head Start Act:  Provided further, That of the amount provided for 
making payments under the Head Start Act, $25,000,000 shall be 
available for allocation by the Secretary to supplement activities 
described in paragraphs (7)(B) and (9) of section 641(c) of such Act 
under the Designation Renewal System, established under the authority 
of sections 641(c)(7), 645A(b)(12) and 645A(d) of such Act:  Provided 
further, That amounts allocated to Head Start grantees at the 
discretion of the Secretary to supplement activities pursuant to the 
previous proviso shall not be included in the calculation of the ``base 
grant'' in subsequent fiscal years, as such term is used in section 
640(a)(7)(A) of the Head Start Act:  Provided further, That 
notwithstanding section 640 of the Head Start Act, of the amount 
provided for making payments under the Head Start Act, and in addition 
to funds otherwise available under section 640 for such purposes, 
$565,000,000 shall be available through March 31, 2016 for Early Head 
Start programs as described in section 645A of such Act, for conversion 
of Head Start services to Early Head Start services as described in 
section 645(a)(5)(A) of such Act, and for discretionary grants for high 
quality infant and toddler care through Early Head Start-Child Care 
Partnerships, to entities defined as eligible under section 645A(d) of 
such Act, and, notwithstanding section 645A(c)(2) of such Act, these 
funds are available to serve children under age 4:  Provided further, 
That of the amount made available in the immediately preceding proviso, 
up to $15,000,000 shall be available for the Federal costs of 
administration and evaluation activities of the program described in 
such proviso:  Provided further, That amounts provided under the 
seventh proviso under this heading in Public Law 113-76 shall not be 
included in the calculation of the ``base grant'' in fiscal year 2015, 
as such term is used in section 640(a)(7)(A) of the Head Start Act:  
Provided further, That $703,454,000 shall be for making payments under 
the CSBG Act:  Provided further, That $35,847,000 shall be for sections 
680 and 678E(b)(2) of the CSBG Act, of which not less than $29,585,000 
shall be for section 680(a)(2) and not less than $5,912,000 shall be 
for section 680(a)(3)(B) of such Act:  Provided further, That to the 
extent Community Services Block Grant funds are distributed as grant 
funds by a State to an eligible entity as provided under the CSBG Act, 
and have not been expended by such entity, they shall remain with such 
entity for carryover into the next fiscal year for expenditure by such 
entity consistent with program purposes:  Provided further, That the 
Secretary shall establish procedures regarding the disposition of 
intangible assets and program income that permit such assets acquired 
with, and program income derived from, grant funds authorized under 
section 680 of the CSBG Act to become the sole property of such 
grantees after a period of not more than 12 years after the end of the 
grant period for any activity consistent with section 680(a)(2)(A) of 
the CSBG Act:  Provided further, That intangible assets in the form of 
loans, equity investments and other debt instruments, and program 
income may be used by grantees for any eligible purpose consistent with 
section 680(a)(2)(A) of the CSBG Act:  Provided further, That these 
procedures shall apply to such grant funds made available after 
November 29, 1999:  Provided further, That funds appropriated for 
section 680(a)(2) of the CSBG Act shall be available for financing 
construction and rehabilitation and loans or investments in private 
business enterprises owned by community development corporations:  
Provided further, That to the extent funds appropriated in this Act for 
the Assets for Independence Act are distributed as grant funds to a 
qualified entity and have not been expended by such entity within 3 
years after the date of award, such funds may be recaptured and, during 
the fiscal year of such recapture, reallocated among other qualified 
entities, to remain available to such entities for 5 years:  Provided 
further, That notwithstanding section 414(e) of such Act, the Secretary 
may award up to $1,000,000 to support evidence-based evaluation:  
Provided further, That section 303(a)(2)(A)(i) of the Family Violence 
Prevention and Services Act shall not apply to amounts provided herein: 
 Provided further, That $1,864,000 shall be for a human services case 
management system for federally declared disasters, to include a 
comprehensive national case management contract and Federal costs of 
administering the system:  Provided further, That up to $2,000,000 
shall be for improving the Public Assistance Reporting Information 
System, including grants to States to support data collection for a 
study of the system's effectiveness.

                   promoting safe and stable families

    For carrying out, except as otherwise provided, section 436 of the 
Social Security Act, $345,000,000 and for carrying out, except as 
otherwise provided, section 437 of such Act, $59,765,000.

                payments for foster care and permanency

    For carrying out, except as otherwise provided, title IV-E of the 
Social Security Act, $4,832,000,000.
    For carrying out, except as otherwise provided, title IV-E of the 
Social Security Act, for the first quarter of fiscal year 2016, 
$2,300,000,000.
    For carrying out, after May 31 of the current fiscal year, except 
as otherwise provided, section 474 of title IV-E of the Social Security 
Act, for the last 3 months of the current fiscal year for unanticipated 
costs, incurred for the current fiscal year, such sums as may be 
necessary.

                  Administration for Community Living

                 aging and disability services programs

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For carrying out, to the extent not otherwise provided, the OAA, 
titles III and XXIX of the PHS Act, section 119 of the Medicare 
Improvements for Patients and Providers Act of 2008, title XX-B of the 
Social Security Act, the Developmental Disabilities Assistance and Bill 
of Rights Act, parts 2 and 5 of subtitle D of title II of the Help 
America Vote Act of 2002, and for Department-wide coordination of 
policy and program activities that assist individuals with 
disabilities, $1,665,371,000, together with $52,115,000 to be 
transferred from the Federal Hospital Insurance Trust Fund and the 
Federal Supplementary Medical Insurance Trust Fund to carry out section 
4360 of the Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1990:  Provided, That 
amounts appropriated under this heading may be used for grants to 
States under section 361 of the OAA only for disease prevention and 
health promotion programs and activities which have been demonstrated 
through rigorous evaluation to be evidence-based and effective:  
Provided further, That none of the funds provided shall be used to 
carry out sections 1701 and 1703 of the PHS Act (with respect to 
chronic disease self-management activity grants), except that such 
funds may be used for necessary expenses associated with administering 
any such grants awarded prior to the date of the enactment of this Act: 
 Provided further, That notwithstanding any other provision of this 
Act, funds made available under this heading to carry out section 311 
of the OAA may be transferred to the Secretary of Agriculture in 
accordance with such section.

                        Office of the Secretary

                    general departmental management

    For necessary expenses, not otherwise provided, for general 
departmental management, including hire of six passenger motor 
vehicles, and for carrying out titles III, XVII, XXI, and section 229 
of the PHS Act, the United States-Mexico Border Health Commission Act, 
and research studies under section 1110 of the Social Security Act, 
$457,629,000, together with $64,828,000 from the amounts available 
under section 241 of the PHS Act to carry out national health or human 
services research and evaluation activities:  Provided, That of this 
amount, $53,681,000 shall be for minority AIDS prevention and treatment 
activities:  Provided further, That of the funds made available under 
this heading, $104,592,000 shall be for making competitive contracts 
and grants to public and private entities to fund medically accurate 
and age appropriate programs that reduce teen pregnancy and for the 
Federal costs associated with administering and evaluating such 
contracts and grants, of which not more than 10 percent of the 
available funds shall be for training and technical assistance, 
evaluation, outreach, and additional program support activities, and of 
the remaining amount 75 percent shall be for replicating programs that 
have been proven effective through rigorous evaluation to reduce 
teenage pregnancy, behavioral risk factors underlying teenage 
pregnancy, or other associated risk factors, and 25 percent shall be 
available for research and demonstration grants to develop, replicate, 
refine, and test additional models and innovative strategies for 
preventing teenage pregnancy:  Provided further, That of the amounts 
provided under this heading from amounts available under section 241 of 
the PHS Act, $6,800,000 shall be available to carry out evaluations 
(including longitudinal evaluations) of teenage pregnancy prevention 
approaches:  Provided further, That of the funds made available under 
this heading, $1,750,000 is for strengthening the Department's 
acquisition workforce capacity and capabilities:  Provided further, 
That with respect to the previous proviso, such funds shall be 
available for training, recruiting, retaining, and hiring members of 
the acquisition workforce as defined by 41 U.S.C. 1703, for information 
technology in support of acquisition workforce effectiveness and for 
management solutions to improve acquisition management.

                office of medicare hearings and appeals

    For expenses necessary for the Office of Medicare Hearings and 
Appeals, $90,000,000, to be transferred in appropriate part from the 
Federal Hospital Insurance Trust Fund and the Federal Supplementary 
Medical Insurance Trust Fund.

  office of the national coordinator for health information technology

    For expenses necessary for the Office of the National Coordinator 
for Health Information Technology, including grants, contracts, and 
cooperative agreements for the development and advancement of 
interoperable health information technology, $61,474,000.

                      office of inspector general

    For expenses necessary for the Office of Inspector General, 
including the hire of passenger motor vehicles for investigations, in 
carrying out the provisions of the Inspector General Act of 1978, 
$71,000,000:  Provided, That of such amount, necessary sums shall be 
available for providing protective services to the Secretary and 
investigating non-payment of child support cases for which non-payment 
is a Federal offense under 18 U.S.C. 228.

                        office for civil rights

    For expenses necessary for the Office for Civil Rights, 
$41,205,000.

     retirement pay and medical benefits for commissioned officers

    For retirement pay and medical benefits of Public Health Service 
Commissioned Officers as authorized by law, for payments under the 
Retired Serviceman's Family Protection Plan and Survivor Benefit Plan, 
and for medical care of dependents and retired personnel under the 
Dependents' Medical Care Act, such amounts as may be required during 
the current fiscal year.

            public health and social services emergency fund

    For expenses necessary to support activities related to countering 
potential biological, nuclear, radiological, chemical, and 
cybersecurity threats to civilian populations, and for other public 
health emergencies, $1,030,899,000, of which $473,000,000 shall remain 
available through September 30, 2016, for expenses necessary to support 
advanced research and development pursuant to section 319L of the PHS 
Act, and other administrative expenses of the Biomedical Advanced 
Research and Development Authority:  Provided, That funds provided 
under this heading for the purpose of acquisition of security 
countermeasures shall be in addition to any other funds available for 
such purpose:  Provided further, That products purchased with funds 
provided under this heading may, at the discretion of the Secretary, be 
deposited in the Strategic National Stockpile pursuant to section 319F-
2 of the PHS Act:  Provided further, That $5,000,000 of the amounts 
made available to support emergency operations shall remain available 
through September 30, 2017.
    For expenses necessary for procuring security countermeasures (as 
defined in section 319F-2(c)(1)(B) of the PHS Act), $407,000,000, to 
remain available until expended.
    For an additional amount for expenses necessary to prepare for or 
respond to an influenza pandemic, $130,009,000; of which $100,000,000 
shall be available until expended, for activities including the 
development and purchase of vaccine, antivirals, necessary medical 
supplies, diagnostics, and other surveillance tools:  Provided, That 
notwithstanding section 496(b) of the PHS Act, funds may be used for 
the construction or renovation of privately owned facilities for the 
production of pandemic influenza vaccines and other biologics, if the 
Secretary finds such construction or renovation necessary to secure 
sufficient supplies of such vaccines or biologics.  Provided further, 
That funds provided under this paragraph are also available for 
preparing for or responding to an emerging infectious disease.

                           General Provisions

    Sec. 201.  Funds appropriated in this title shall be available for 
not to exceed $50,000 for official reception and representation 
expenses when specifically approved by the Secretary.
    Sec. 202.  None of the funds appropriated in this title shall be 
used to pay the salary of an individual, through a discretionary grant 
or other extramural mechanism, at a rate in excess of Executive Level 
II.
    Sec. 203.  None of the funds appropriated in this Act may be 
expended pursuant to section 241 of the PHS Act, except for funds 
specifically provided for in this Act, or for other taps and 
assessments made by any office located in HHS, prior to the preparation 
and submission of a report by the Secretary to the Committees on 
Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the Senate detailing 
the planned uses of such funds.
    Sec. 204.  Notwithstanding section 241(a) of the PHS Act, such 
portion as the Secretary shall determine, but not more than 2.5 
percent, of any amounts appropriated for programs authorized under such 
Act shall be made available for the evaluation (directly, or by grants 
or contracts) and the implementation and effectiveness of programs 
funded in this title.

                          (transfer of funds)

    Sec. 205.  Not to exceed 1 percent of any discretionary funds 
(pursuant to the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 
1985) which are appropriated for the current fiscal year for HHS in 
this Act may be transferred between appropriations, but no such 
appropriation shall be increased by more than 3 percent by any such 
transfer:  Provided, That the transfer authority granted by this 
section shall not be used to create any new program or to fund any 
project or activity for which no funds are provided in this Act:  
Provided further, That the Committees on Appropriations of the House of 
Representatives and the Senate are notified at least 15 days in advance 
of any transfer.

                          (transfer of funds)

    Sec. 206.  The Director of the NIH, jointly with the Director of 
the Office of AIDS Research, may transfer up to 3 percent among 
institutes and centers from the total amounts identified by these two 
Directors as funding for research pertaining to the human 
immunodeficiency virus:  Provided, That the Committees on 
Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the Senate are 
notified at least 15 days in advance of any transfer.

                          (transfer of funds)

    Sec. 207.  Of the amounts made available in this Act for NIH, the 
amount for research related to the human immunodeficiency virus, as 
jointly determined by the Director of NIH and the Director of the 
Office of AIDS Research, shall be made available to the ``Office of 
AIDS Research'' account. The Director of the Office of AIDS Research 
shall transfer from such account amounts necessary to carry out section 
2353(d)(3) of the PHS Act.
    Sec. 208.  None of the funds appropriated in this Act may be made 
available to any entity under title X of the PHS Act unless the 
applicant for the award certifies to the Secretary that it encourages 
family participation in the decision of minors to seek family planning 
services and that it provides counseling to minors on how to resist 
attempts to coerce minors into engaging in sexual activities.
    Sec. 209.  Notwithstanding any other provision of law, no provider 
of services under title X of the PHS Act shall be exempt from any State 
law requiring notification or the reporting of child abuse, child 
molestation, sexual abuse, rape, or incest.
    Sec. 210.  None of the funds appropriated by this Act (including 
funds appropriated to any trust fund) may be used to carry out the 
Medicare Advantage program if the Secretary denies participation in 
such program to an otherwise eligible entity (including a Provider 
Sponsored Organization) because the entity informs the Secretary that 
it will not provide, pay for, provide coverage of, or provide referrals 
for abortions:  Provided, That the Secretary shall make appropriate 
prospective adjustments to the capitation payment to such an entity 
(based on an actuarially sound estimate of the expected costs of 
providing the service to such entity's enrollees):  Provided further, 
That nothing in this section shall be construed to change the Medicare 
program's coverage for such services and a Medicare Advantage 
organization described in this section shall be responsible for 
informing enrollees where to obtain information about all Medicare 
covered services.
    Sec. 211.  In order for HHS to carry out international health 
activities, including HIV/AIDS and other infectious disease, chronic 
and environmental disease, and other health activities abroad during 
fiscal year 2015:
            (1) The Secretary may exercise authority equivalent to that 
        available to the Secretary of State in section 2(c) of the 
        State Department Basic Authorities Act of 1956. The Secretary 
        shall consult with the Secretary of State and relevant Chief of 
        Mission to ensure that the authority provided in this section 
        is exercised in a manner consistent with section 207 of the 
        Foreign Service Act of 1980 and other applicable statutes 
        administered by the Department of State.
            (2) The Secretary is authorized to provide such funds by 
        advance or reimbursement to the Secretary of State as may be 
        necessary to pay the costs of acquisition, lease, alteration, 
        renovation, and management of facilities outside of the United 
        States for the use of HHS. The Department of State shall 
        cooperate fully with the Secretary to ensure that HHS has 
        secure, safe, functional facilities that comply with applicable 
        regulation governing location, setback, and other facilities 
        requirements and serve the purposes established by this Act. 
        The Secretary is authorized, in consultation with the Secretary 
        of State, through grant or cooperative agreement, to make 
        available to public or nonprofit private institutions or 
        agencies in participating foreign countries, funds to acquire, 
        lease, alter, or renovate facilities in those countries as 
        necessary to conduct programs of assistance for international 
        health activities, including activities relating to HIV/AIDS 
        and other infectious diseases, chronic and environmental 
        diseases, and other health activities abroad.
            (3) The Secretary is authorized to provide to personnel 
        appointed or assigned by the Secretary to serve abroad, 
        allowances and benefits similar to those provided under chapter 
        9 of title I of the Foreign Service Act of 1980, and 22 U.S.C. 
        4081 through 4086 and subject to such regulations prescribed by 
        the Secretary. The Secretary is further authorized to provide 
        locality-based comparability payments (stated as a percentage) 
        up to the amount of the locality-based comparability payment 
        (stated as a percentage) that would be payable to such 
        personnel under section 5304 of title 5, United States Code if 
        such personnel's official duty station were in the District of 
        Columbia. Leaves of absence for personnel under this subsection 
        shall be on the same basis as that provided under subchapter I 
        of chapter 63 of title 5, United States Code, or section 903 of 
        the Foreign Service Act of 1980, to individuals serving in the 
        Foreign Service.
    Sec. 212. (a) Authority.--Notwithstanding any other provision of 
law, the Director of NIH (``Director'') may use funds available under 
section 402(b)(7) or 402(b)(12) of the PHS Act to enter into 
transactions (other than contracts, cooperative agreements, or grants) 
to carry out research identified pursuant to such section 402(b)(7) 
(pertaining to the Common Fund) or research and activities described in 
such section 402(b)(12).
    (b) Peer Review.--In entering into transactions under subsection 
(a), the Director may utilize such peer review procedures (including 
consultation with appropriate scientific experts) as the Director 
determines to be appropriate to obtain assessments of scientific and 
technical merit. Such procedures shall apply to such transactions in 
lieu of the peer review and advisory council review procedures that 
would otherwise be required under sections 301(a)(3), 405(b)(1)(B), 
405(b)(2), 406(a)(3)(A), 492, and 494 of the PHS Act.
    Sec. 213.  Funds which are available for Individual Learning 
Accounts for employees of CDC and the Agency for Toxic Substances and 
Disease Registry (``ATSDR'') may be transferred between appropriate 
accounts of CDC, to be available only for Individual Learning Accounts: 
 Provided, That such funds may be used for any individual full-time 
equivalent employee while such employee is employed either by CDC or 
ATSDR.
    Sec. 214.  Not to exceed $45,000,000 of funds appropriated by this 
Act to the institutes and centers of the National Institutes of Health 
may be used for alteration, repair, or improvement of facilities, as 
necessary for the proper and efficient conduct of the activities 
authorized herein, at not to exceed $3,500,000 per project.

                          (transfer of funds)

    Sec. 215.  Of the amounts made available for NIH, 1 percent of the 
amount made available for National Research Service Awards (``NRSA'') 
shall be made available to the Administrator of the Health Resources 
and Services Administration to make NRSA awards for research in primary 
medical care to individuals affiliated with entities who have received 
grants or contracts under sections 736, 739, or 747 of the PHS Act, and 
1 percent of the amount made available for NRSA shall be made available 
to the Director of the Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality to 
make NRSA awards for health service research.
    Sec. 216. (a) The Secretary shall establish a publicly accessible 
Web site to provide information regarding the uses of funds made 
available under section 4002 of the Patient Protection and Affordable 
Care Act of 2010 (``ACA'').
    (b) With respect to funds provided under section 4002 of the ACA, 
the Secretary shall include on the Web site established under 
subsection (a) at a minimum the following information:
            (1) In the case of each transfer of funds under section 
        4002(c), a statement indicating the program or activity 
        receiving funds, the operating division or office that will 
        administer the funds, and the planned uses of the funds, to be 
        posted not later than the day after the transfer is made.
            (2) Identification (along with a link to the full text) of 
        each funding opportunity announcement, request for proposals, 
        or other announcement or solicitation of proposals for grants, 
        cooperative agreements, or contracts intended to be awarded 
        using such funds, to be posted not later than the day after the 
        announcement or solicitation is issued.
            (3) Identification of each grant, cooperative agreement, or 
        contract with a value of $25,000 or more awarded using such 
        funds, including the purpose of the award and the identity of 
        the recipient, to be posted not later than 5 days after the 
        award is made.
            (4) A report detailing the uses of all funds transferred 
        under section 4002(c) during the fiscal year, to be posted not 
        later than 90 days after the end of the fiscal year.
    (c) With respect to awards made in fiscal years 2013 and 2014, the 
Secretary shall also include on the Web site established under 
subsection (a), semi-annual reports from each entity awarded a grant, 
cooperative agreement, or contract from such funds with a value of 
$25,000 or more, summarizing the activities undertaken and identifying 
any sub-grants or sub-contracts awarded (including the purpose of the 
award and the identity of the recipient), to be posted not later than 
30 days after the end of each 6-month period.
    (d) In carrying out this section, the Secretary shall:
            (1) present the information required in subsection (b)(1) 
        on a single webpage or on a single database;
            (2) ensure that all information required in this section is 
        directly accessible from the single webpage or database; and
            (3) ensure that all information required in this section is 
        able to be organized by program or State.

                          (transfer of funds)

    Sec. 217. (a) Within 45 days of enactment of this Act, the 
Secretary shall transfer funds appropriated under section 4002 of the 
Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act of 2010 (``ACA'') to the 
accounts specified, in the amounts specified, and for the activities 
specified under the heading ``Prevention and Public Health Fund'' in 
the table accompanying this Act.
    (b) Notwithstanding section 4002(c) of the ACA, the Secretary may 
not further transfer these amounts.
    (c) Funds transferred for activities authorized under section 2821 
of the PHS Act shall be made available without reference to section 
2821(b) of such Act.
    Sec. 218. (a) The Biomedical Advanced Research and Development 
Authority (``BARDA'') may enter into a contract, for more than one but 
no more than 10 program years, for purchase of research services or of 
security countermeasures, as that term is defined in section 319F-
2(c)(1)(B) of the PHS Act (42 U.S.C. 247d-6b(c)(1)(B)), if--
            (1) funds are available and obligated--
                    (A) for the full period of the contract or for the 
                first fiscal year in which the contract is in effect; 
                and
                    (B) for the estimated costs associated with a 
                necessary termination of the contract; and
            (2) the Secretary determines that a multi-year contract 
        will serve the best interests of the Federal Government by 
        encouraging full and open competition or promoting economy in 
        administration, performance, and operation of BARDA's programs.
    (b) A contract entered into under this section:
            (1) shall include a termination clause as described by 
        subsection (c) of section 3903 of title 41, United States Code; 
        and
            (2) shall be subject to the congressional notice 
        requirement stated in subsection (d) of such section.
    Sec. 219. (a) The Secretary shall publish in the fiscal year 2016 
budget justification and on Departmental Web sites information 
concerning the employment of full-time equivalent Federal employees or 
contractors for the purposes of implementing, administering, enforcing, 
or otherwise carrying out the provisions of the Patient Protection and 
Affordable Care Act of 2010 (``ACA''), and the amendments made by that 
Act, in the proposed fiscal year and the 4 prior fiscal years.
    (b) With respect to employees or contractors supported by all funds 
appropriated for purposes of carrying out the ACA (and the amendments 
made by that Act), the Secretary shall include, at a minimum, the 
following information:
            (1) For each such fiscal year, the section of such Act 
        under which such funds were appropriated, a statement 
        indicating the program, project, or activity receiving such 
        funds, the Federal operating division or office that 
        administers such program, and the amount of funding received in 
        discretionary or mandatory appropriations.
            (2) For each such fiscal year, the number of full-time 
        equivalent employees or contracted employees assigned to each 
        authorized and funded provision detailed in accordance with 
        paragraph (1).
    (c) In carrying out this section, the Secretary may exclude from 
the report employees or contractors who:
            (1) Are supported through appropriations enacted in laws 
        other than the ACA and work on programs that existed prior to 
        the passage of the ACA;
            (2) spend less than 50 percent of their time on activities 
        funded by or newly authorized in the ACA;
            (3) or who work on contracts for which FTE reporting is not 
        a requirement of their contract, such as fixed-price contracts.
    Sec. 220.  In lieu of the timeframe specified in section 338E(c)(2) 
of the PHS Act, terminations described in such section may occur up to 
60 days after the execution of a contract awarded in fiscal year 2015 
under section 338B of such Act.
    Sec. 221.  Title IV of the PHS Act is amended by:
            (1) Striking ``National Center for Complementary and 
        Alternative Medicine'' and ``Office of Alternative Medicine'' 
        in each place either appears and replacing it with ``National 
        Center for Complementary and Integrative Health'';
            (2) Striking ``alternative medicine'' in each place it 
        appears and replacing it with ``integrative health'';
            (3) Striking all references to ``alternative and 
        complementary medical treatment'' or ``complementary and 
        alternative treatment'' in each place either appears and 
        inserting ``complementary and integrative health'';
            (4) Striking references to ``alternative medical 
        treatment'' in each place it appears and inserting 
        ``integrative health treatment''; and
            (5) Striking section 485D(c) and inserting:
    ``(c) In carrying out subsection (a), the Director of the Center 
shall, as appropriate, study the integration of new and non-traditional 
approaches to health care treatment and consumption, including but not 
limited to non-traditional treatment, diagnostic and prevention 
systems, modalities, and disciplines.''.
    Sec. 222.  In addition to amounts provided herein, payments made 
for research organisms or substances, authorized under section 301(a) 
of the PHS Act, shall be retained and credited to the appropriations 
accounts of the Institutes and Centers of the NIH making the substance 
or organism available under section 301(a). Amounts credited to the 
account under this authority shall be available for obligation through 
September 30, 2016.
    Sec. 223.  The Secretary shall publish, as part of the fiscal year 
2016 budget of the President submitted under section 1105(a) of title 
31, United States Code, information that details the uses of all funds 
used by the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services specifically for 
Health Insurance Marketplaces for each fiscal year since the enactment 
of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (Public Law 111-148) 
and the proposed uses for such funds for fiscal year 2016. Such 
information shall include, for each such fiscal year--
            (1) the amount of funds used for each activity specified in 
        the tables under the heading ``Health Insurance Marketplace 
        Activity'' in the table accompanying this Act; and
            (2) the milestones completed for data hub functionality and 
        implementation readiness.
    Sec. 224.  That the authority provided by sections 399AA(e), 
399BB(g), and 399CC(f) of the PHS Act shall remain in effect through 
September 30, 2015.
    Sec. 225.  The NIH director shall require registrations and results 
from NIH funded clinical trials to be included in the clinical trials 
registry data bank.
    This title may be cited as the ``Department of Health and Human 
Services Appropriations Act, 2015''.

                               TITLE III

                        DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION

                    Education for the Disadvantaged

    For carrying out title I of the Elementary and Secondary Education 
Act of 1965 (referred to in this Act as ``ESEA'') and section 418A of 
the Higher Education Act of 1965 (referred to in this Act as ``HEA''), 
$15,673,887,000, of which $4,788,520,000 shall become available on July 
1, 2015, and shall remain available through September 30, 2016, and of 
which $10,841,177,000 shall become available on October 1, 2015, and 
shall remain available through September 30, 2016, for academic year 
2015-2016:  Provided, That $6,459,401,000 shall be for basic grants 
under section 1124 of the ESEA:  Provided further, That up to 
$3,984,000 of these funds shall be available to the Secretary of 
Education (referred to in this title as ``Secretary'') on October 1, 
2014, to obtain annually updated local educational agency-level census 
poverty data from the Bureau of the Census:  Provided further, That 
$1,362,301,000 shall be for concentration grants under section 1124A of 
the ESEA:  Provided further, That $3,347,378,000 shall be for targeted 
grants under section 1125 of the ESEA:  Provided further, That 
$3,347,378,000 shall be for education finance incentive grants under 
section 1125A of the ESEA:  Provided further, That funds available 
under sections 1124, 1124A, 1125 and 1125A of the ESEA may be used to 
provide homeless children and youths with services not ordinarily 
provided to other students under those sections, including supporting 
the liaison designated pursuant to section 722(g)(1)(J)(ii) of the 
McKinney-Vento Homeless Assistance Act, and providing transportation 
pursuant to section 722(g)(1)(J)(iii) of such Act:  Provided further, 
That $680,000 shall be to carry out sections 1501 and 1503 of the ESEA: 
 Provided further, That $505,756,000 shall be available for school 
improvement grants under section 1003(g) of the ESEA, which shall be 
allocated by the Secretary through the formula described in section 
1003(g)(2) and shall be used consistent with the requirements of 
section 1003(g), except that State and local educational agencies may 
use such funds to serve any school eligible to receive assistance under 
part A of title I that has not made adequate yearly progress for at 
least 2 years or is in the State's lowest quintile of performance based 
on proficiency rates and, in the case of secondary schools, priority 
shall be given to those schools with graduation rates below 60 percent: 
 Provided further, That notwithstanding section 1003(g)(5)(C) of the 
ESEA, the Secretary may permit a State educational agency to establish 
an award period of up to 5 years for each participating local 
educational agency:  Provided further, That funds available for school 
improvement grants may be used by a local educational agency to 
implement a whole-school reform strategy for a school using an 
evidence-based strategy that ensures whole-school reform is undertaken 
in partnership with a strategy developer offering a whole-school reform 
program that is based on at least a moderate level of evidence that the 
program will have a statistically significant effect on student 
outcomes, including more than one well-designed or well-implemented 
experimental or quasi-experimental study:  Provided further, That funds 
available for school improvement grants may be used by a local 
educational agency to implement an alternative State-determined school 
improvement strategy that has been established by a State educational 
agency with the approval of the Secretary:  Provided further, That a 
local educational agency that is determined to be eligible for services 
under subpart 1 or 2 of part B of title VI of the ESEA may modify not 
more than one element of a school improvement grant model:  Provided 
further, That notwithstanding section 1003(g)(5)(A), each State 
educational agency may establish a maximum subgrant size of not more 
than $2,000,000 for each participating school applicable to such funds: 
 Provided further, That the Secretary may reserve up to 5 percent of 
the funds available for section 1003(g) of the ESEA to carry out 
activities to build State and local educational agency capacity to 
implement effectively the school improvement grants program:  Provided 
further, That $168,000,000 shall be available under section 1502 of the 
ESEA for a comprehensive literacy development and education program to 
advance literacy skills, including pre-literacy skills, reading, and 
writing, for students from birth through grade 12, including limited-
English-proficient students and students with disabilities, of which 
one-half of 1 percent shall be reserved for the Secretary of the 
Interior for such a program at schools funded by the Bureau of Indian 
Education, one-half of 1 percent shall be reserved for grants to the 
outlying areas for such a program, up to 5 percent may be reserved for 
national activities, and the remainder shall be used to award 
competitive grants to State educational agencies for such a program, of 
which a State educational agency may reserve up to 5 percent for State 
leadership activities, including technical assistance and training, 
data collection, reporting, and administration, and shall subgrant not 
less than 95 percent to local educational agencies or, in the case of 
early literacy, to local educational agencies or other nonprofit 
providers of early childhood education that partner with a public or 
private nonprofit organization or agency with a demonstrated record of 
effectiveness in improving the early literacy development of children 
from birth through kindergarten entry and in providing professional 
development in early literacy, giving priority to such agencies or 
other entities serving greater numbers or percentages of disadvantaged 
children:  Provided further, That the State educational agency shall 
ensure that at least 15 percent of the subgranted funds are used to 
serve children from birth through age 5, 40 percent are used to serve 
students in kindergarten through grade 5, and 40 percent are used to 
serve students in middle and high school including an equitable 
distribution of funds between middle and high schools:  Provided 
further, That eligible entities receiving subgrants from State 
educational agencies shall use such funds for services and activities 
that have the characteristics of effective literacy instruction through 
professional development, screening and assessment, targeted 
interventions for students reading below grade level and other 
research-based methods of improving classroom instruction and practice.

                         Preschool Development

    For carrying out, in accordance with the applicable requirements of 
part D of title V of the ESEA, $250,000,000 for a preschool development 
grants program:  Provided, That the Secretary, jointly with the 
Secretary of HHS, shall make competitive awards to States for 
activities that build the capacity within the State to develop, 
enhance, or expand high-quality preschool programs, including 
comprehensive services and family engagement, for preschool-aged 
children from families at or below 200 percent of the Federal poverty 
line:  Provided further, That each State may subgrant a portion of such 
grant funds to local educational agencies and other early learning 
providers (including, but not limited to, Head Start programs and 
licensed child care providers), or consortia thereof, for the 
implementation of high-quality preschool programs for children from 
families at or below 200 percent of the Federal poverty line:  Provided 
further, That subgrantees that are local educational agencies shall 
form strong partnerships with early learning providers and that 
subgrantees that are early learning providers shall form strong 
partnerships with local educational agencies, in order to carry out the 
requirements of the subgrant:  Provided further, That up to 3 percent 
of such funds for preschool development grants shall be available for 
technical assistance, evaluation, and other national activities related 
to such grants:  Provided further, That the Secretary shall administer 
State grants for improving early childhood care and education under 
such section jointly with the Secretary of Health and Human Services on 
such terms as such Secretaries set forth in an interagency agreement.

                               Impact Aid

    For carrying out programs of financial assistance to federally 
affected schools authorized by title VIII of the ESEA, $1,291,186,000, 
of which $1,153,540,000 shall be for basic support payments under 
section 8003(b), $48,413,000 shall be for payments for children with 
disabilities under section 8003(d), $17,441,000 shall be for 
construction under section 8007(b) and be available for obligation 
through September 30, 2016, $66,947,000 shall be for Federal property 
payments under section 8002, and $4,845,000, to remain available until 
expended, shall be for facilities maintenance under section 8008:  
Provided, That for purposes of computing the amount of a payment for an 
eligible local educational agency under section 8003(a) for school year 
2014-2015, children enrolled in a school of such agency that would 
otherwise be eligible for payment under section 8003(a)(1)(B) of such 
Act, but due to the deployment of both parents or legal guardians, or a 
parent or legal guardian having sole custody of such children, or due 
to the death of a military parent or legal guardian while on active 
duty (so long as such children reside on Federal property as described 
in section 8003(a)(1)(B)), are no longer eligible under such section, 
shall be considered as eligible students under such section, provided 
such students remain in average daily attendance at a school in the 
same local educational agency they attended prior to their change in 
eligibility status.

                      School Improvement Programs

    For carrying out school improvement activities authorized by parts 
A and B of title II, part B of title IV, parts A and B of title VI, and 
parts B and C of title VII of the ESEA; the McKinney-Vento Homeless 
Assistance Act; section 203 of the Educational Technical Assistance Act 
of 2002; the Compact of Free Association Amendments Act of 2003; and 
the Civil Rights Act of 1964, $4,541,744,000, of which $2,724,347,000 
shall become available on July 1, 2015, and remain available through 
September 30, 2016, and of which $1,681,441,000 shall become available 
on October 1, 2015, and shall remain available through September 30, 
2016, for academic year 2015-2016:  Provided, That funds made available 
to carry out part B of title VII of the ESEA may be used for 
construction, renovation, and modernization of any elementary school, 
secondary school, or structure related to an elementary school or 
secondary school, run by the Department of Education of the State of 
Hawaii, that serves a predominantly Native Hawaiian student body:  
Provided further, That funds made available to carry out part C of 
title VII of the ESEA shall be awarded on a competitive basis, and also 
may be used for construction:  Provided further, That $48,445,000 shall 
be available to carry out section 203 of the Educational Technical 
Assistance Act of 2002:  Provided further, That $16,699,000 shall be 
available to carry out the Supplemental Education Grants program for 
the Federated States of Micronesia and the Republic of the Marshall 
Islands:  Provided further, That the Secretary may reserve up to 5 
percent of the amount referred to in the previous proviso to provide 
technical assistance in the implementation of these grants:  Provided 
further, That up to 2 percent of the funds for subpart 1 of part A of 
title II of the ESEA shall be reserved by the Secretary for competitive 
awards for teacher or principal recruitment and training and 
professional enhancement activities, including for civic education 
instruction, to national not-for-profit organizations:  Provided 
further, That $155,000,000 shall be to carry out part B of title II of 
the ESEA.

                            Indian Education

    For expenses necessary to carry out, to the extent not otherwise 
provided, title VII, part A of the ESEA, $130,779,000.

                       Innovation and Improvement

    For carrying out activities authorized by part G of title I, 
subpart 5 of part A and parts C and D of title II, parts B, C, and D of 
title V of the ESEA, and section 14007 of division A of the American 
Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009, as amended, $882,398,000:  
Provided, That up to $141,602,000 shall be available through December 
31, 2015 for section 14007 of division A of Public Law 111-5, and up to 
5 percent of such funds may be used for technical assistance and the 
evaluation of activities carried out under such section:  Provided 
further, That $230,000,000 of the funds for subpart 1 of part D of 
title V of the ESEA shall be for competitive grants to local 
educational agencies, including charter schools that are local 
educational agencies, or States, or partnerships of: (1) a local 
educational agency, a State, or both; and (2) at least one nonprofit 
organization to develop and implement performance-based compensation 
systems for teachers, principals, and other personnel in high-need 
schools:  Provided further, That such performance-based compensation 
systems must consider gains in student academic achievement as well as 
classroom evaluations conducted multiple times during each school year 
among other factors and provide educators with incentives to take on 
additional responsibilities and leadership roles:  Provided further, 
That recipients of such grants shall demonstrate that such performance-
based compensation systems are developed with the input of teachers and 
school leaders in the schools and local educational agencies to be 
served by the grant:  Provided further, That recipients of such grants 
may use such funds to develop or improve systems and tools (which may 
be developed and used for the entire local educational agency or only 
for schools served under the grant) that would enhance the quality and 
success of the compensation system, such as high-quality teacher 
evaluations and tools to measure growth in student achievement:  
Provided further, That applications for such grants shall include a 
plan to sustain financially the activities conducted and systems 
developed under the grant once the grant period has expired:  Provided 
further, That up to 5 percent of such funds for competitive grants 
shall be available for technical assistance, training, peer review of 
applications, program outreach, and evaluation activities:  Provided 
further, That of the funds available for part B of title V of the ESEA, 
the Secretary shall use up to $11,000,000 to carry out activities under 
section 5205(b) and shall use not less than $13,000,000 for subpart 2:  
Provided further, That of the funds available for subpart 1 of part B 
of title V of the ESEA, and notwithstanding section 5205(a), the 
Secretary shall reserve up to $75,000,000 to make multiple awards to 
non-profit charter management organizations and other entities that are 
not for-profit entities for the replication and expansion of successful 
charter school models and shall reserve up to $12,000,000 to carry out 
the activities described in section 5205(a), including improving 
quality and oversight of charter schools and providing technical 
assistance and grants to authorized public chartering agencies in order 
to increase the number of high-performing charter schools:  Provided 
further, That funds available for part B of title V of the ESEA may be 
used for grants that support preschool education in charter schools:  
Provided further, That each application submitted pursuant to section 
5203(a) shall describe a plan to monitor and hold accountable 
authorized public chartering agencies through such activities as 
providing technical assistance or establishing a professional 
development program, which may include evaluation, planning, training, 
and systems development for staff of authorized public chartering 
agencies to improve the capacity of such agencies in the State to 
authorize, monitor, and hold accountable charter schools:  Provided 
further, That each application submitted pursuant to section 5203(a) 
shall contain assurances that State law, regulations, or other policies 
require that: (1) each authorized charter school in the State operate 
under a legally binding charter or performance contract between itself 
and the school's authorized public chartering agency that describes the 
rights and responsibilities of the school and the public chartering 
agency; conduct annual, timely, and independent audits of the school's 
financial statements that are filed with the school's authorized public 
chartering agency; and demonstrate improved student academic 
achievement; and (2) authorized public chartering agencies use 
increases in student academic achievement for all groups of students 
described in section 1111(b)(2)(C)(v) of the ESEA as the most important 
factor when determining to renew or revoke a school's charter:  
Provided further, That $10,000,000 of the funds for subpart 1 of part D 
of title V of the ESEA shall be for competitive grants to local 
educational agencies to develop, implement, and evaluate interventions 
to improve the non-cognitive skills of students in the middle grades.

                 Safe Schools and Citizenship Education

    For carrying out activities authorized by part A of title IV and 
subparts 1, 2, and 10 of part D of title V of the ESEA, $280,876,000:  
Provided, That $90,000,000 shall be available for subpart 2 of part A 
of title IV, of which up to $5,000,000, to remain available until 
expended, shall be for the Project School Emergency Response to 
Violence (``Project SERV'') program to provide education-related 
services to local educational agencies and institutions of higher 
education in which the learning environment has been disrupted due to a 
violent or traumatic crisis:  Provided further, That $59,887,000 shall 
be available for Promise Neighborhoods.

                      English Language Acquisition

    For carrying out part A of title III of the ESEA, $732,144,000, 
which shall become available on July 1, 2015, and shall remain 
available through September 30, 2016, except that 6.5 percent of such 
amount shall be available on October 1, 2014, and shall remain 
available through September 30, 2016, to carry out activities under 
section 3111(c)(1)(C):  Provided, That the Secretary shall use 
estimates of the American Community Survey child counts for the most 
recent 3-year period available to calculate allocations under such 
part.

                           Special Education

    For carrying out the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act 
(IDEA) and the Special Olympics Sport and Empowerment Act of 2004, 
$12,648,712,000, of which $3,109,827,000 shall become available on July 
1, 2015, and shall remain available through September 30, 2016, and of 
which $9,283,383,000 shall become available on October 1, 2015, and 
shall remain available through September 30, 2016, for academic year 
2015-2016:  Provided, That the amount for section 611(b)(2) of the IDEA 
shall be equal to the lesser of the amount available for that activity 
during fiscal year 2014, increased by the amount of inflation as 
specified in section 619(d)(2)(B) of the IDEA, or the percent change in 
the funds appropriated under section 611(i) of the IDEA, but not less 
than the amount for that activity during fiscal year 2014:  Provided 
further, That the Secretary shall, without regard to section 611(d) of 
the IDEA, distribute to all other States (as that term is defined in 
section 611(g)(2)), subject to the third proviso, any amount by which a 
State's allocation under section 611(d), from funds appropriated under 
this heading, is reduced under section 612(a)(18)(B), according to the 
following: 85 percent on the basis of the States' relative populations 
of children aged 3 through 21 who are of the same age as children with 
disabilities for whom the State ensures the availability of a free 
appropriate public education under this part, and 15 percent to States 
on the basis of the States' relative populations of those children who 
are living in poverty:  Provided further, That the Secretary may not 
distribute any funds under the previous proviso to any State whose 
reduction in allocation from funds appropriated under this heading made 
funds available for such a distribution:  Provided further, That the 
States shall allocate such funds distributed under the second proviso 
to local educational agencies in accordance with section 611(f):  
Provided further, That the amount by which a State's allocation under 
section 611(d) of the IDEA is reduced under section 612(a)(18)(B) and 
the amounts distributed to States under the previous provisos in fiscal 
year 2012 or any subsequent year shall not be considered in calculating 
the awards under section 611(d) for fiscal year 2013 or for any 
subsequent fiscal years:  Provided further, That, notwithstanding 
section 612(a)(18)(B), in reducing a State's allocation under section 
611 for failure to comply with the requirement of section 
612(a)(18)(A), the Secretary may apply that reduction over a period of 
consecutive fiscal years, not to exceed five, until the entire 
reduction is applied:  Provided further, That the Secretary may, in any 
fiscal year in which a State's allocation under section 611 is reduced 
in accordance with section 612(a)(18)(B), reduce the amount a State may 
reserve under section 611(e)(1) by an amount that bears the same 
relation to the maximum amount described in that paragraph as the 
reduction under section 612(a)(18)(B) bears to the total allocation the 
State would have received in that fiscal year under section 611(d) in 
the absence of the reduction:  Provided further, That the Secretary 
shall either reduce the allocation of funds under section 611 for any 
fiscal year following the fiscal year for which the State fails to 
comply with the requirement of section 612(a)(18)(A) as authorized by 
section 612(a)(18)(B), or seek to recover funds under section 452 of 
the General Education Provisions Act (20 U.S.C. 1234a):  Provided 
further, That the funds reserved under 611(c) of the IDEA may be used 
to provide technical assistance to States to improve the capacity of 
the States to meet the data collection requirements of sections 616 and 
618 and to administer and carry out other services and activities to 
improve data collection, coordination, quality, and use under parts B 
and C of the IDEA:  Provided further, That the Secretary may reserve up 
to $10,000,000 of the funds made available for section 663 of the IDEA 
to support: (1) grants to States, outlying areas, freely associated 
states, and the Secretary of the Interior to carry out activities 
identified in their State Systemic Improvement Plans to improve results 
for children with disabilities birth through age 21 under Parts B and C 
of the IDEA; and (2) related activities for carrying out and assessing 
the performance of those grants:  Provided further, That funds reserved 
under the preceding proviso shall remain available for obligation 
through September 30, 2016:  Provided further, That each entity that 
receives a grant under the second preceding proviso may make subgrants, 
contracts, or otherwise distribute those funds on a competitive, 
targeted, or formula basis to public, private, and non-profit entities, 
including local educational agencies and early intervention service 
providers, to carry out activities authorized under that proviso:  
Provided further, That the level of effort a local educational agency 
must meet under section 613(a)(2)(A)(iii) of the IDEA, in the year 
after it fails to maintain effort is the level of effort that would 
have been required in the absence of that failure and not the LEA's 
reduced level of expenditures:  Provided further, That the Secretary 
may use funds made available for the State Personnel Development Grants 
program under Part D, subpart 1 of IDEA to evaluate program 
performance.

            Rehabilitation Services and Disability Research

    For carrying out, to the extent not otherwise provided, the 
Rehabilitation Act of 1973, the Assistive Technology Act of 1998, and 
the Helen Keller National Center Act, $3,722,853,000, of which 
$3,335,074,000 shall be for grants for vocational rehabilitation 
services under title I of the Rehabilitation Act:  Provided, That 
section 302(g)(3) of the Rehabilitation Act shall not apply to funds 
provided under section 302 of such Act:  Provided further, That the 
Secretary may use amounts provided in this Act that remain available 
subsequent to the reallotment of funds to States pursuant to section 
110(b) of the Rehabilitation Act for innovative activities aimed at 
improving the outcomes of individuals with disabilities as defined in 
section 7(20)(B) of the Rehabilitation Act, including activities aimed 
at improving the education and post-school outcomes of children 
receiving Supplemental Security Income (``SSI'') and their families 
that may result in long-term improvement in the SSI child recipient's 
economic status and self-sufficiency:  Provided further, That States 
may award subgrants for a portion of the funds to other public and 
private, non-profit entities:  Provided further, That any funds made 
available subsequent to reallotment for innovative activities aimed at 
improving the outcomes of individuals with disabilities shall remain 
available until September 30, 2016.

           Special Institutions for Persons With Disabilities

                 american printing house for the blind

    For carrying out the Act of March 3, 1879, $25,000,000.

               national technical institute for the deaf

    For the National Technical Institute for the Deaf under titles I 
and II of the Education of the Deaf Act of 1986, $67,741,000:  
Provided, That from the total amount available, the Institute may at 
its discretion use funds for the endowment program as authorized under 
section 207 of such Act.

                          gallaudet university

    For the Kendall Demonstration Elementary School, the Model 
Secondary School for the Deaf, and the partial support of Gallaudet 
University under titles I and II of the Education of the Deaf Act of 
1986, $121,550,000:  Provided, That from the total amount available, 
the University may at its discretion use funds for the endowment 
program as authorized under section 207 of such Act.

                 Career, Technical, and Adult Education

    For carrying out, to the extent not otherwise provided, the Carl D. 
Perkins Career and Technical Education Act of 2006 and the Adult 
Education and Family Literacy Act (``AEFLA''), $1,739,156,000, of which 
$948,156,000 shall become available on July 1, 2015, and shall remain 
available through September 30, 2016, and of which $791,000,000 shall 
become available on October 1, 2015, and shall remain available through 
September 30, 2016:  Provided, That of the amount provided for Adult 
Education State Grants, $72,425,000 shall be made available for 
integrated English literacy and civics education services to immigrants 
and other limited-English-proficient populations:  Provided further, 
That of the amount reserved for integrated English literacy and civics 
education, notwithstanding section 211 of the AEFLA, 65 percent shall 
be allocated to States based on a State's absolute need as determined 
by calculating each State's share of a 10-year average of the United 
States Citizenship and Immigration Services data for immigrants 
admitted for legal permanent residence for the 10 most recent years, 
and 35 percent allocated to States that experienced growth as measured 
by the average of the 3 most recent years for which United States 
Citizenship and Immigration Services data for immigrants admitted for 
legal permanent residence are available, except that no State shall be 
allocated an amount less than $60,000:  Provided further, That of the 
amounts made available for AEFLA, $13,712,000 shall be for national 
leadership activities under section 243.

                      Student Financial Assistance

    For carrying out subparts 1, 3, and 10 of part A, and part C of 
title IV of the HEA, $24,233,210,000, which shall remain available 
through September 30, 2016.
    The maximum Pell Grant for which a student shall be eligible during 
award year 2015-2016 shall be $4,860.

                       Student Aid Administration

    For Federal administrative expenses to carry out part D of title I, 
and subparts 1, 3, 9, and 10 of part A, and parts B, C, D, and E of 
title IV of the HEA, and subpart 1 of part A of title VII of the Public 
Health Service Act, $1,446,924,000, to remain available through 
September 30, 2016.

                            Higher Education

    For carrying out, to the extent not otherwise provided, titles II, 
III, IV, V, VI, VII, and VIII of the HEA, the Mutual Educational and 
Cultural Exchange Act of 1961, and section 117 of the Carl D. Perkins 
Career and Technical Education Act of 2006, $1,969,893,000:  Provided, 
That $1,000,000 shall be for data collection and evaluation activities 
for programs under the HEA, including such activities needed to comply 
with the Government Performance and Results Act of 1993:  Provided 
further, That notwithstanding any other provision of law, funds made 
available in this Act to carry out title VI of the HEA and section 
102(b)(6) of the Mutual Educational and Cultural Exchange Act of 1961 
may be used to support visits and study in foreign countries by 
individuals who are participating in advanced foreign language training 
and international studies in areas that are vital to United States 
national security and who plan to apply their language skills and 
knowledge of these countries in the fields of government, the 
professions, or international development:  Provided further, That of 
the funds referred to in the preceding proviso up to 1 percent may be 
used for program evaluation, national outreach, and information 
dissemination activities:  Provided further, That up to 1.5 percent of 
the funds made available under chapter 2 of subpart 2 of part A of 
title IV may be used for evaluation:  Provided further, That up to 2.5 
percent of the funds made available under this Act for part B of title 
VII of the HEA may be used for technical assistance and the evaluation 
of activities carried out under such section.

                           Howard University

    For partial support of Howard University, $221,821,000, of which 
not less than $3,405,000 shall be for a matching endowment grant 
pursuant to the Howard University Endowment Act and shall remain 
available until expended.

         College Housing and Academic Facilities Loans Program

    For Federal administrative expenses to carry out activities related 
to existing facility loans pursuant to section 121 of the HEA, 
$435,000.

  Historically Black College and University Capital Financing Program 
                                Account

    For the cost of guaranteed loans, $20,150,000, as authorized 
pursuant to part D of title III of the HEA, which shall remain 
available through September 30, 2016:  Provided, That such costs, 
including the cost of modifying such loans, shall be as defined in 
section 502 of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974:  Provided further, 
That these funds are available to subsidize total loan principal, any 
part of which is to be guaranteed, not to exceed $338,552,000:  
Provided further, That these funds may be used to support loans to 
public and private Historically Black Colleges and Universities without 
regard to the limitations within section 344(a) of the HEA.
    In addition, for administrative expenses to carry out the 
Historically Black College and University Capital Financing Program 
entered into pursuant to part D of title III of the HEA, $334,000.

                    Institute of Education Sciences

    For carrying out activities authorized by the Education Sciences 
Reform Act of 2002, the National Assessment of Educational Progress 
Authorization Act, section 208 of the Educational Technical Assistance 
Act of 2002, and section 664 of the Individuals with Disabilities 
Education Act, $585,006,000, which shall remain available through 
September 30, 2016:  Provided, That funds available to carry out 
section 208 of the Educational Technical Assistance Act may be used to 
link Statewide elementary and secondary data systems with early 
childhood, postsecondary, and workforce data systems, or to further 
develop such systems:  Provided further, That up to $6,000,000 of the 
funds available to carry out section 208 of the Educational Technical 
Assistance Act may be used for awards to public or private 
organizations or agencies to support activities to improve data 
coordination, quality, and use at the local, State, and national 
levels.

                        Departmental Management

                         program administration

    For carrying out, to the extent not otherwise provided, the 
Department of Education Organization Act, including rental of 
conference rooms in the District of Columbia and hire of three 
passenger motor vehicles, $422,917,000, of which up to $1,000,000, to 
remain available until expended, shall be for relocation of, and 
renovation of buildings occupied by, Department staff.

                        office for civil rights

    For expenses necessary for the Office for Civil Rights, as 
authorized by section 203 of the Department of Education Organization 
Act, $102,624,000.

                      office of inspector general

    For expenses necessary for the Office of Inspector General, as 
authorized by section 212 of the Department of Education Organization 
Act, $58,791,000.

                           General Provisions

    Sec. 301.  No funds appropriated in this Act may be used for the 
transportation of students or teachers (or for the purchase of 
equipment for such transportation) in order to overcome racial 
imbalance in any school or school system, or for the transportation of 
students or teachers (or for the purchase of equipment for such 
transportation) in order to carry out a plan of racial desegregation of 
any school or school system.
    Sec. 302.  None of the funds contained in this Act shall be used to 
require, directly or indirectly, the transportation of any student to a 
school other than the school which is nearest the student's home, 
except for a student requiring special education, to the school 
offering such special education, in order to comply with title VI of 
the Civil Rights Act of 1964. For the purpose of this section an 
indirect requirement of transportation of students includes the 
transportation of students to carry out a plan involving the 
reorganization of the grade structure of schools, the pairing of 
schools, or the clustering of schools, or any combination of grade 
restructuring, pairing, or clustering. The prohibition described in 
this section does not include the establishment of magnet schools.
    Sec. 303.  No funds appropriated in this Act may be used to prevent 
the implementation of programs of voluntary prayer and meditation in 
the public schools.

                          (transfer of funds)

    Sec. 304.  Not to exceed 1 percent of any discretionary funds 
(pursuant to the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 
1985) which are appropriated for the Department of Education in this 
Act may be transferred between appropriations, but no such 
appropriation shall be increased by more than 3 percent by any such 
transfer:  Provided, That the transfer authority granted by this 
section shall not be used to create any new program or to fund any 
project or activity for which no funds are provided in this Act:  
Provided further, That the Committees on Appropriations of the House of 
Representatives and the Senate are notified at least 15 days in advance 
of any transfer.
    Sec. 305.  The Outlying Areas may consolidate funds received under 
this Act, pursuant to 48 U.S.C. 1469a, under part A of title V of the 
ESEA.
    Sec. 306.  Section 105(f)(1)(B)(ix) of the Compact of Free 
Association Amendments Act of 2003 (48 U.S.C. 1921d(f)(1)(B)(ix)) shall 
be applied by substituting ``2015'' for ``2009''.
    Sec. 307.  The Secretary may reserve funds under section 9601 of 
the ESEA (subject to the limitations in subsections (b) and (c) of that 
section) in order to carry out activities authorized under that section 
with respect to any ESEA program funded in this Act and without respect 
to the source of funds for those activities:  Provided, That any funds 
reserved under this section shall be available from July 1, 2015 
through September 30, 2016:  Provided further, That not later than 10 
days prior to the initial obligation of funds reserved under this 
section, the Secretary shall submit an evaluation plan to the Senate 
Committees on Appropriations and Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions 
and the House Committees on Appropriations and Education and the 
Workforce which identifies the source and amount of funds reserved 
under this section, the impact on program grantees if funds are 
withheld, and the programs to be evaluated with such funds.
    Sec. 308.  None of the funds made available by this Act to carry 
out the HEA may be disbursed or delivered to an institution of higher 
education (or other postsecondary educational institution) on behalf of 
a student, or to a student to be used to attend the institution, unless 
the institution certifies to the Secretary that it will not use 
revenues derived from educational assistance funds provided in any form 
under any Federal law for advertising, marketing or student recruitment 
activities (other than activities required or specifically authorized 
by title IV of the HEA or otherwise specified by the Secretary).
    Sec. 309.  The Secretary of Education shall--
            (1) modify the Free Application for Federal Student Aid 
        described in section 483 of the HEA so that the Free 
        Application for Federal Student Aid contains an individual box 
        for the purpose of identifying students who are foster youth or 
        were in the foster care system; and
            (2) utilize such identification as a tool to notify 
        students who are foster youth or were in the foster care system 
        of their potential eligibility for Federal student aid, 
        including postsecondary education programs through the John H. 
        Chafee Foster Care Independence Program and any other Federal 
        programs under which such students may be eligible to receive 
        assistance.
    Sec. 310. (a) Student Eligibility.--
            (1) Subsection (d) of section 484 of the HEA is amended to 
        read as follows:
    ``(d) Students Who Are Not High School Graduates.--
            ``(1) Student eligibility.--In order for a student who does 
        not have a certificate of graduation from a school providing 
        secondary education, or the recognized equivalent of such 
        certificate, to be eligible for any assistance under subparts 
        1, 3, and 4 of part A and parts B, C, D, and E of this title, 
        the student shall meet the requirements of one of the following 
        subparagraphs:
                    ``(A) The student is enrolled in an eligible career 
                pathway program and meets one of the following 
                standards:
                            ``(i) The student shall take an 
                        independently administered examination and 
                        shall achieve a score, specified by the 
                        Secretary, demonstrating that such student can 
                        benefit from the education or training being 
                        offered. Such examination shall be approved by 
                        the Secretary on the basis of compliance with 
                        such standards for development, administration, 
                        and scoring as the Secretary may prescribe in 
                        regulations.
                            ``(ii) The student shall be determined as 
                        having the ability to benefit from the 
                        education or training in accordance with such 
                        process as the State shall prescribe. Any such 
                        process described or approved by a State for 
                        the purposes of this section shall be effective 
                        6 months after the date of submission to the 
                        Secretary unless the Secretary disapproves such 
                        process. In determining whether to approve or 
                        disapprove such process, the Secretary shall 
                        take into account the effectiveness of such 
                        process in enabling students without secondary 
                        school diplomas or the equivalent thereof to 
                        benefit from the instruction offered by 
                        institutions utilizing such process, and shall 
                        also take into account the cultural diversity, 
                        economic circumstances, and educational 
                        preparation of the populations served by the 
                        institutions.
                            ``(iii) The student shall be determined by 
                        the institution of higher education as having 
                        the ability to benefit from the education or 
                        training offered by the institution of higher 
                        education upon satisfactory completion of 6 
                        credit hours or the equivalent coursework that 
                        are applicable toward a degree or certificate 
                        offered by the institution of higher education.
                    ``(B) The student has completed a secondary school 
                education in a home school setting that is treated as a 
                home school or private school under State law.
            ``(2) Eligible career pathway program.--In this subsection, 
        the term `eligible career pathway program' means a program 
        that--
                    ``(A) concurrently enrolls participants in 
                connected adult education and eligible postsecondary 
                programs;
                    ``(B) provides counseling and supportive services 
                to identify and attain academic and career goals;
                    ``(C) provides structured course sequences that--
                            ``(i) are articulated and contextualized; 
                        and
                            ``(ii) allow students to advance to higher 
                        levels of education and employment;
                    ``(D) provides opportunities for acceleration to 
                attain recognized postsecondary credentials, including 
                degrees, industry relevant certifications, and 
                certificates of completion of apprenticeship programs;
                    ``(E) is organized to meet the needs of adults;
                    ``(F) is aligned with the education and skill needs 
                of the regional economy; and
                    ``(G) has been developed and implemented in 
                collaboration with partners in business, workforce 
                development, and economic development.''.
            (2) The amendment made by paragraph (1) shall take effect 
        as if such amendment was enacted on June 30, 2014, and shall 
        apply to students who are enrolled or who first enroll in an 
        eligible program of study on or after July 1, 2014.
    (b) Section 401 (b)(2)(A)(ii) of the HEA is amended by inserting 
after ``year'' and before the comma ``except that a student eligible 
only under 484(d)(1)(A) who first enrolls in an eligible program of 
study on or after July 1, 2015 shall not be eligible for the amount of 
the increase calculated under paragraph (7)(B)''.
    This title may be cited as the ``Department of Education 
Appropriations Act, 2015''.

                                TITLE IV

                            RELATED AGENCIES

 Committee for Purchase From People Who Are Blind or Severely Disabled

                         salaries and expenses

    For expenses necessary for the Committee for Purchase From People 
Who Are Blind or Severely Disabled established by Public Law 92-28, 
$5,441,000.

             Corporation for National and Community Service

                           operating expenses

    For necessary expenses for the Corporation for National and 
Community Service (referred to in this title as ``CNCS'') to carry out 
the Domestic Volunteer Service Act of 1973 (referred to in this title 
as ``1973 Act'') and the National and Community Service Act of 1990 
(referred to in this title as ``1990 Act''), $765,349,000, 
notwithstanding sections 198B(b)(3), 198S(g), 501(a)(6), 501(a)(4)(C), 
and 501(a)(4)(F) of the 1990 Act:  Provided, That of the amounts 
provided under this heading: (1) up to 1 percent of program grant funds 
may be used to defray the costs of conducting grant application 
reviews, including the use of outside peer reviewers and electronic 
management of the grants cycle; (2) $70,000,000 shall be available for 
expenses authorized under section 501(a)(4)(E) of the 1990 Act; (3) 
$15,538,000 shall be available to provide assistance to State 
commissions on national and community service, under section 126(a) of 
the 1990 Act and notwithstanding section 501(a)(5)(B) of the 1990 Act; 
(4) $30,000,000 shall be available to carry out subtitle E of the 1990 
Act; and (5) $3,800,000 shall be available for expenses authorized 
under section 501(a)(4)(F) of the 1990 Act, which, notwithstanding the 
provisions of section 198P shall be awarded by CNCS on a competitive 
basis:  Provided further, That for the purposes of carrying out the 
1990 Act, satisfying the requirements in section 122(c)(1)(D), may 
include a determination of need by the local community:  Provided 
further, That not to exceed 20 percent of funds made available under 
section 501(a)(4)(E) of the 1990 Act may be used for Social Innovation 
Fund Pilot Program-related performance-based awards for Pay for Success 
projects and shall remain available through September 30, 2016:  
Provided further, That, with respect to the previous proviso, any funds 
obligated for such projects shall remain available for disbursement 
until expended, notwithstanding 31 U.S.C. 1552(a):  Provided further, 
That any funds deobligated from projects under section 501(a)(4)(E) of 
the 1990 Act shall immediately be available for activities authorized 
under 198K of such Act.

                 payment to the national service trust

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For payment to the National Service Trust established under 
subtitle D of title I of the 1990 Act, $210,695,000, to remain 
available until expended:  Provided, That CNCS may transfer additional 
funds from the amount provided within ``Operating Expenses'' allocated 
to grants under subtitle C of title I of the 1990 Act to the National 
Service Trust upon determination that such transfer is necessary to 
support the activities of national service participants and after 
notice is transmitted to the Committees on Appropriations of the House 
of Representatives and the Senate:  Provided further, That amounts 
appropriated for or transferred to the National Service Trust may be 
invested under section 145(b) of the 1990 Act without regard to the 
requirement to apportion funds under 31 U.S.C. 1513(b).

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of administration as provided under section 
501(a)(5) of the 1990 Act and under section 504(a) of the 1973 Act, 
including payment of salaries, authorized travel, hire of passenger 
motor vehicles, the rental of conference rooms in the District of 
Columbia, the employment of experts and consultants authorized under 5 
U.S.C. 3109, and not to exceed $2,500 for official reception and 
representation expenses, $83,737,000.

                      office of inspector general

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Inspector General in 
carrying out the Inspector General Act of 1978, $5,500,000.

                       administrative provisions

    Sec. 401.  CNCS shall make any significant changes to program 
requirements, service delivery or policy only through public notice and 
comment rulemaking. For fiscal year 2015, during any grant selection 
process, an officer or employee of CNCS shall not knowingly disclose 
any covered grant selection information regarding such selection, 
directly or indirectly, to any person other than an officer or employee 
of CNCS that is authorized by CNCS to receive such information.
    Sec. 402.  AmeriCorps programs receiving grants under the National 
Service Trust program shall meet an overall minimum share requirement 
of 24 percent for the first 3 years that they receive AmeriCorps 
funding, and thereafter shall meet the overall minimum share 
requirement as provided in section 2521.60 of title 45, Code of Federal 
Regulations, without regard to the operating costs match requirement in 
section 121(e) or the member support Federal share limitations in 
section 140 of the 1990 Act, and subject to partial waiver consistent 
with section 2521.70 of title 45, Code of Federal Regulations.
    Sec. 403.  Donations made to CNCS under section 196 of the 1990 Act 
for the purposes of financing programs and operations under titles I 
and II of the 1973 Act or subtitle B, C, D, or E of title I of the 1990 
Act shall be used to supplement and not supplant current programs and 
operations.
    Sec. 404.  In addition to the requirements in section 146(a) of the 
1990 Act, use of an educational award for the purpose described in 
section 148(a)(4) shall be limited to individuals who are veterans as 
defined under section 101 of the Act.
    Sec. 405.  For the purpose of carrying out section 189D of the 1990 
Act:
            (1) Entities described in paragraph (a) of such section 
        shall be considered ``qualified entities'' under section 3 of 
        the National Child Protection Act of 1993 (``NCPA''); and
            (2) Individuals described in such section shall be 
        considered ``volunteers'' under section 3 of NCPA; and
            (3) State Commissions on National and Community Service 
        established pursuant to section 178 of the 1990 Act, are 
        authorized to receive criminal history record information, 
        consistent with Public Law 92-544.

                  Corporation for Public Broadcasting

    For payment to the Corporation for Public Broadcasting (``CPB''), 
as authorized by the Communications Act of 1934, an amount which shall 
be available within limitations specified by that Act, for the fiscal 
year 2017, $445,000,000:  Provided, That none of the funds made 
available to CPB by this Act shall be used to pay for receptions, 
parties, or similar forms of entertainment for Government officials or 
employees:  Provided further, That none of the funds made available to 
CPB by this Act shall be available or used to aid or support any 
program or activity from which any person is excluded, or is denied 
benefits, or is discriminated against, on the basis of race, color, 
national origin, religion, or sex:  Provided further, That none of the 
funds made available to CPB by this Act shall be used to apply any 
political test or qualification in selecting, appointing, promoting, or 
taking any other personnel action with respect to officers, agents, and 
employees of CPB:  Provided further, That none of the funds made 
available to CPB by this Act shall be used to support the Television 
Future Fund or any similar purpose.

               Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service

                         salaries and expenses

    For expenses necessary for the Federal Mediation and Conciliation 
Service (``Service'') to carry out the functions vested in it by the 
Labor-Management Relations Act, 1947, including hire of passenger motor 
vehicles; for expenses necessary for the Labor-Management Cooperation 
Act of 1978; and for expenses necessary for the Service to carry out 
the functions vested in it by the Civil Service Reform Act, 
$46,163,000, including up to $400,000 to remain available through 
September 30, 2016 for activities authorized by the Labor-Management 
Cooperation Act of 1978:  Provided, That notwithstanding 31 U.S.C. 
3302, fees charged, up to full-cost recovery, for special training 
activities and other conflict resolution services and technical 
assistance, including those provided to foreign governments and 
international organizations, and for arbitration services shall be 
credited to and merged with this account, and shall remain available 
until expended:  Provided further, That fees for arbitration services 
shall be available only for education, training, and professional 
development of the agency workforce:  Provided further, That the 
Director of the Service is authorized to accept and use on behalf of 
the United States gifts of services and real, personal, or other 
property in the aid of any projects or functions within the Director's 
jurisdiction.

            Federal Mine Safety and Health Review Commission

                         salaries and expenses

    For expenses necessary for the Federal Mine Safety and Health 
Review Commission, $17,061,000.

                Institute of Museum and Library Services

    office of museum and library services: grants and administration

    For carrying out the Museum and Library Services Act of 1996 and 
the National Museum of African American History and Culture Act, 
$231,490,000.

            Medicaid and CHIP Payment and Access Commission

                         salaries and expenses

    For expenses necessary to carry out section 1900 of the Social 
Security Act, $8,500,000.

                  Medicare Payment Advisory Commission

                         salaries and expenses

    For expenses necessary to carry out section 1805 of the Social 
Security Act, $12,300,000, to be transferred to this appropriation from 
the Federal Hospital Insurance Trust Fund and the Federal Supplementary 
Medical Insurance Trust Fund.

                     National Council on Disability

                         salaries and expenses

    For expenses necessary for the National Council on Disability as 
authorized by title IV of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, $3,264,000.

               National Health Care Workforce Commission

    For necessary expenses for the National Health Care Workforce 
Commission, as authorized by title V, subtitle B, section 5101 of the 
Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, $3,000,000, to remain 
available until expended.

                     National Labor Relations Board

                         salaries and expenses

    For expenses necessary for the National Labor Relations Board to 
carry out the functions vested in it by the Labor-Management Relations 
Act, 1947, and other laws, $278,306,000:  Provided, That no part of 
this appropriation shall be available to organize or assist in 
organizing agricultural laborers or used in connection with 
investigations, hearings, directives, or orders concerning bargaining 
units composed of agricultural laborers as referred to in section 2(3) 
of the Act of July 5, 1935, and as amended by the Labor-Management 
Relations Act, 1947, and as defined in section 3(f) of the Act of June 
25, 1938, and including in said definition employees engaged in the 
maintenance and operation of ditches, canals, reservoirs, and waterways 
when maintained or operated on a mutual, nonprofit basis and at least 
95 percent of the water stored or supplied thereby is used for farming 
purposes.

                        National Mediation Board

                         salaries and expenses

    For expenses necessary to carry out the provisions of the Railway 
Labor Act, including emergency boards appointed by the President, 
$13,411,000.

            Occupational Safety and Health Review Commission

                         salaries and expenses

    For expenses necessary for the Occupational Safety and Health 
Review Commission, $12,651,000.

                       Railroad Retirement Board

                     dual benefits payments account

    For payment to the Dual Benefits Payments Account, authorized under 
section 15(d) of the Railroad Retirement Act of 1974, $34,000,000, 
which shall include amounts becoming available in fiscal year 2014 
pursuant to section 224(c)(1)(B) of Public Law 98-76; and in addition, 
an amount, not to exceed 2 percent of the amount provided herein, shall 
be available proportional to the amount by which the product of 
recipients and the average benefit received exceeds the amount 
available for payment of vested dual benefits:  Provided, That the 
total amount provided herein shall be credited in 12 approximately 
equal amounts on the first day of each month in the fiscal year.

          federal payments to the railroad retirement accounts

    For payment to the accounts established in the Treasury for the 
payment of benefits under the Railroad Retirement Act for interest 
earned on unnegotiated checks, $150,000, to remain available through 
September 30, 2016, which shall be the maximum amount available for 
payment pursuant to section 417 of Public Law 98-76.

                      limitation on administration

    For necessary expenses for the Railroad Retirement Board 
(``Board'') for administration of the Railroad Retirement Act and the 
Railroad Unemployment Insurance Act, $112,150,000, to be derived in 
such amounts as determined by the Board from the railroad retirement 
accounts and from moneys credited to the railroad unemployment 
insurance administration fund:  Provided, That notwithstanding section 
7(b)(9) of the Railroad Retirement Act this limitation may be used to 
hire attorneys only through the excepted service:  Provided further, 
That the previous proviso shall not change the status under Federal 
employment laws of any attorney hired by the Railroad Retirement Board 
prior to January 1, 2013.

             limitation on the office of inspector general

    For expenses necessary for the Office of Inspector General for 
audit, investigatory and review activities, as authorized by the 
Inspector General Act of 1978, not more than $8,750,000, to be derived 
from the railroad retirement accounts and railroad unemployment 
insurance account.

                     Social Security Administration

                payments to social security trust funds

    For payment to the Federal Old-Age and Survivors Insurance Trust 
Fund and the Federal Disability Insurance Trust Fund, as provided under 
sections 201(m), 228(g), and 1131(b)(2) of the Social Security Act, 
$16,400,000.

                  supplemental security income program

    For carrying out titles XI and XVI of the Social Security Act, 
section 401 of Public Law 92-603, section 212 of Public Law 93-66, as 
amended, and section 405 of Public Law 95-216, including payment to the 
Social Security trust funds for administrative expenses incurred 
pursuant to section 201(g)(1) of the Social Security Act, 
$40,998,647,000, to remain available until expended:  Provided, That 
any portion of the funds provided to a State in the current fiscal year 
and not obligated by the State during that year shall be returned to 
the Treasury:  Provided further, That not more than $83,000,000 shall 
be available for research and demonstrations under sections 1110, 1115, 
and 1144 of the Social Security Act, to remain available until 
expended.
    For making, after June 15 of the current fiscal year, benefit 
payments to individuals under title XVI of the Social Security Act, for 
unanticipated costs incurred for the current fiscal year, such sums as 
may be necessary.
    For making benefit payments under title XVI of the Social Security 
Act for the first quarter of fiscal year 2016, $19,200,000,000, to 
remain available until expended.

                 limitation on administrative expenses

    For necessary expenses, including the hire of two passenger motor 
vehicles, and not to exceed $20,000 for official reception and 
representation expenses, not more than $10,536,026,000 may be expended, 
as authorized by section 201(g)(1) of the Social Security Act, from any 
one or all of the trust funds referred to in such section:  Provided, 
That not less than $2,300,000 shall be for the Social Security Advisory 
Board:  Provided further, That unobligated balances of funds provided 
under this paragraph at the end of fiscal year 2015 not needed for 
fiscal year 2015 shall remain available until expended to invest in the 
Social Security Administration information technology and 
telecommunications hardware and software infrastructure, including 
related equipment and non-payroll administrative expenses associated 
solely with this information technology and telecommunications 
infrastructure:  Provided further, That the Commissioner of Social 
Security shall notify the Committees on Appropriations of the House of 
Representatives and the Senate prior to making unobligated balances 
available under the authority in the previous proviso:  Provided 
further, That reimbursement to the trust funds under this heading for 
expenditures for official time for employees of the Social Security 
Administration pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 7131, and for facilities or support 
services for labor organizations pursuant to policies, regulations, or 
procedures referred to in section 7135(b) of such title shall be made 
by the Secretary of the Treasury, with interest, from amounts in the 
general fund not otherwise appropriated, as soon as possible after such 
expenditures are made.
    In addition, for the costs associated with continuing disability 
reviews under titles II and XVI of the Social Security Act and for the 
cost associated with conducting redeterminations of eligibility under 
title XVI of the Social Security Act, $1,396,000,000 may be expended, 
as authorized by section 201(g)(1) of the Social Security Act, from any 
one or all of the trust funds referred to therein:  Provided, That, of 
such amount, $273,000,000 is provided to meet the terms of section 
251(b)(2)(B)(ii)(III) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
Control Act of 1985, as amended, and $1,123,000,000 is additional new 
budget authority specified for purposes of section 251(b)(2)(B) of such 
Act:  Provided further, That the Commissioner shall provide to the 
Congress (at the conclusion of the fiscal year) a report on the 
obligation and expenditure of these funds, similar to the reports that 
were required by section 103(d)(2) of Public Law 104-121 for fiscal 
years 1996 through 2002.
    In addition, $124,000,000 to be derived from administration fees in 
excess of $5.00 per supplementary payment collected pursuant to section 
1616(d) of the Social Security Act or section 212(b)(3) of Public Law 
93-66, which shall remain available until expended. To the extent that 
the amounts collected pursuant to such sections in fiscal year 2015 
exceed $124,000,000, the amounts shall be available in fiscal year 2016 
only to the extent provided in advance in appropriations Acts.
    In addition, up to $1,000,000 to be derived from fees collected 
pursuant to section 303(c) of the Social Security Protection Act, which 
shall remain available until expended.

                      office of inspector general

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For expenses necessary for the Office of Inspector General in 
carrying out the provisions of the Inspector General Act of 1978, 
$28,829,000, together with not to exceed $74,249,000, to be transferred 
and expended as authorized by section 201(g)(1) of the Social Security 
Act from the Federal Old-Age and Survivors Insurance Trust Fund and the 
Federal Disability Insurance Trust Fund.
    In addition, an amount not to exceed 3 percent of the total 
provided in this appropriation may be transferred from the ``Limitation 
on Administrative Expenses'', Social Security Administration, to be 
merged with this account, to be available for the time and purposes for 
which this account is available:  Provided, That notice of such 
transfers shall be transmitted promptly to the Committees on 
Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the Senate at least 
15 days in advance of any transfer.

                                TITLE V

                           GENERAL PROVISIONS

                          (transfer of funds)

    Sec. 501.  The Secretaries of Labor, Health and Human Services, and 
Education are authorized to transfer unexpended balances of prior 
appropriations to accounts corresponding to current appropriations 
provided in this Act. Such transferred balances shall be used for the 
same purpose, and for the same periods of time, for which they were 
originally appropriated.
    Sec. 502.  No part of any appropriation contained in this Act shall 
remain available for obligation beyond the current fiscal year unless 
expressly so provided herein.
    Sec. 503. (a) No part of any appropriation contained in this Act or 
transferred pursuant to section 4002 of Public Law 111-148 shall be 
used, other than for normal and recognized executive-legislative 
relationships, for publicity or propaganda purposes, for the 
preparation, distribution, or use of any kit, pamphlet, booklet, 
publication, electronic communication, radio, television, or video 
presentation designed to support or defeat the enactment of legislation 
before the Congress or any State or local legislature or legislative 
body, except in presentation to the Congress or any State or local 
legislature itself, or designed to support or defeat any proposed or 
pending regulation, administrative action, or order issued by the 
executive branch of any State or local government, except in 
presentation to the executive branch of any State or local government 
itself.
    (b) No part of any appropriation contained in this Act or 
transferred pursuant to section 4002 of Public Law 111-148 shall be 
used to pay the salary or expenses of any grant or contract recipient, 
or agent acting for such recipient, related to any activity designed to 
influence the enactment of legislation, appropriations, regulation, 
administrative action, or Executive order proposed or pending before 
the Congress or any State government, State legislature or local 
legislature or legislative body, other than for normal and recognized 
executive-legislative relationships or participation by an agency or 
officer of a State, local or tribal government in policymaking and 
administrative processes within the executive branch of that 
government.
    Sec. 504.  The Secretaries of Labor and Education are authorized to 
make available not to exceed $28,000 and $20,000, respectively, from 
funds available for salaries and expenses under titles I and III, 
respectively, for official reception and representation expenses; the 
Director of the Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service is 
authorized to make available for official reception and representation 
expenses not to exceed $5,000 from the funds available for ``Federal 
Mediation and Conciliation Service, Salaries and Expenses''; and the 
Chairman of the National Mediation Board is authorized to make 
available for official reception and representation expenses not to 
exceed $5,000 from funds available for ``National Mediation Board, 
Salaries and Expenses''.
    Sec. 505.  When issuing statements, press releases, requests for 
proposals, bid solicitations and other documents describing projects or 
programs funded in whole or in part with Federal money, all grantees 
receiving Federal funds included in this Act, including but not limited 
to State and local governments and recipients of Federal research 
grants, shall clearly state--
            (1) the percentage of the total costs of the program or 
        project which will be financed with Federal money;
            (2) the dollar amount of Federal funds for the project or 
        program; and
            (3) percentage and dollar amount of the total costs of the 
        project or program that will be financed by non-governmental 
        sources.
    Sec. 506. (a) None of the funds appropriated in this Act, and none 
of the funds in any trust fund to which funds are appropriated in this 
Act, shall be expended for any abortion.
    (b) None of the funds appropriated in this Act, and none of the 
funds in any trust fund to which funds are appropriated in this Act, 
shall be expended for health benefits coverage that includes coverage 
of abortion.
    (c) The term ``health benefits coverage'' means the package of 
services covered by a managed care provider or organization pursuant to 
a contract or other arrangement.
    Sec. 507. (a) The limitations established in the preceding section 
shall not apply to an abortion--
            (1) if the pregnancy is the result of an act of rape or 
        incest; or
            (2) in the case where a woman suffers from a physical 
        disorder, physical injury, or physical illness, including a 
        life-endangering physical condition caused by or arising from 
        the pregnancy itself, that would, as certified by a physician, 
        place the woman in danger of death unless an abortion is 
        performed.
    (b) Nothing in the preceding section shall be construed as 
prohibiting the expenditure by a State, locality, entity, or private 
person of State, local, or private funds (other than a State's or 
locality's contribution of Medicaid matching funds).
    (c) Nothing in the preceding section shall be construed as 
restricting the ability of any managed care provider from offering 
abortion coverage or the ability of a State or locality to contract 
separately with such a provider for such coverage with State funds 
(other than a State's or locality's contribution of Medicaid matching 
funds).
    (d)(1) None of the funds made available in this Act may be made 
available to a Federal agency or program, or to a State or local 
government, if such agency, program, or government subjects any 
institutional or individual health care entity to discrimination on the 
basis that the health care entity does not provide, pay for, provide 
coverage of, or refer for abortions.
    (2) In this subsection, the term ``health care entity'' includes an 
individual physician or other health care professional, a hospital, a 
provider-sponsored organization, a health maintenance organization, a 
health insurance plan, or any other kind of health care facility, 
organization, or plan.
    Sec. 508. (a) None of the funds made available in this Act may be 
used for--
            (1) the creation of a human embryo or embryos for research 
        purposes; or
            (2) research in which a human embryo or embryos are 
        destroyed, discarded, or knowingly subjected to risk of injury 
        or death greater than that allowed for research on fetuses in 
        utero under 45 CFR 46.204(b) and section 498(b) of the Public 
        Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 289g(b)).
    (b) For purposes of this section, the term ``human embryo or 
embryos'' includes any organism, not protected as a human subject under 
45 CFR 46 as of the date of the enactment of this Act, that is derived 
by fertilization, parthenogenesis, cloning, or any other means from one 
or more human gametes or human diploid cells.
    Sec. 509. (a) None of the funds made available in this Act may be 
used for any activity that promotes the legalization of any drug or 
other substance included in schedule I of the schedules of controlled 
substances established under section 202 of the Controlled Substances 
Act except for normal and recognized executive-congressional 
communications.
    (b) The limitation in subsection (a) shall not apply when there is 
significant medical evidence of a therapeutic advantage to the use of 
such drug or other substance or that federally sponsored clinical 
trials are being conducted to determine therapeutic advantage.
    Sec. 510.  None of the funds made available in this Act may be used 
to promulgate or adopt any final standard under section 1173(b) of the 
Social Security Act providing for, or providing for the assignment of, 
a unique health identifier for an individual (except in an individual's 
capacity as an employer or a health care provider), until legislation 
is enacted specifically approving the standard.
    Sec. 511.  None of the funds made available in this Act may be 
obligated or expended to enter into or renew a contract with an entity 
if--
            (1) such entity is otherwise a contractor with the United 
        States and is subject to the requirement in 38 U.S.C. 4212(d) 
        regarding submission of an annual report to the Secretary of 
        Labor concerning employment of certain veterans; and
            (2) such entity has not submitted a report as required by 
        that section for the most recent year for which such 
        requirement was applicable to such entity.
    Sec. 512.  None of the funds made available in this Act may be 
transferred to any department, agency, or instrumentality of the United 
States Government, except pursuant to a transfer made by, or transfer 
authority provided in, this Act or any other appropriation Act.
    Sec. 513.  None of the funds made available by this Act to carry 
out the Library Services and Technology Act may be made available to 
any library covered by paragraph (1) of section 224(f) of such Act, as 
amended by the Children's Internet Protection Act, unless such library 
has made the certifications required by paragraph (4) of such section.
    Sec. 514. (a) None of the funds provided under this Act, or 
provided under previous appropriations Acts to the agencies funded by 
this Act that remain available for obligation or expenditure in fiscal 
year 2015, or provided from any accounts in the Treasury of the United 
States derived by the collection of fees available to the agencies 
funded by this Act, shall be available for obligation or expenditure 
through a reprogramming of funds that--
            (1) creates new programs;
            (2) eliminates a program, project, or activity;
            (3) increases funds or personnel by any means for any 
        project or activity for which funds have been denied or 
        restricted;
            (4) relocates an office or employees;
            (5) reorganizes or renames offices;
            (6) reorganizes programs or activities; or
            (7) contracts out or privatizes any functions or activities 
        presently performed by Federal employees;
unless the Committees on Appropriations of the House of Representatives 
and the Senate are consulted 15 days in advance of such reprogramming 
or of an announcement of intent relating to such reprogramming, 
whichever occurs earlier, and are notified in writing 10 days in 
advance of such reprogramming.
    (b) None of the funds provided under this Act, or provided under 
previous appropriations Acts to the agencies funded by this Act that 
remain available for obligation or expenditure in fiscal year 2015, or 
provided from any accounts in the Treasury of the United States derived 
by the collection of fees available to the agencies funded by this Act, 
shall be available for obligation or expenditure through a 
reprogramming of funds in excess of $500,000 or 10 percent, whichever 
is less, that--
            (1) augments existing programs, projects (including 
        construction projects), or activities;
            (2) reduces by 10 percent funding for any existing program, 
        project, or activity, or numbers of personnel by 10 percent as 
        approved by Congress; or
            (3) results from any general savings from a reduction in 
        personnel which would result in a change in existing programs, 
        activities, or projects as approved by Congress;
unless the Committees on Appropriations of the House of Representatives 
and the Senate are consulted 15 days in advance of such reprogramming 
or of an announcement of intent relating to such reprogramming, 
whichever occurs earlier, and are notified in writing 10 days in 
advance of such reprogramming.
    Sec. 515. (a) None of the funds made available in this Act may be 
used to request that a candidate for appointment to a Federal 
scientific advisory committee disclose the political affiliation or 
voting history of the candidate or the position that the candidate 
holds with respect to political issues not directly related to and 
necessary for the work of the committee involved.
    (b) None of the funds made available in this Act may be used to 
disseminate information that is deliberately false or misleading.
    Sec. 516.  Within 45 days of enactment of this Act, each department 
and related agency funded through this Act shall submit an operating 
plan that details at the program, project, and activity level any 
funding allocations for fiscal year 2015 that are different than those 
specified in this Act, the accompanying detailed table in the Committee 
report accompanying this Act, or the fiscal year 2015 budget request.
    Sec. 517.  The Secretaries of Labor, Health and Human Services, and 
Education shall each prepare and submit to the Committees on 
Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the Senate a report 
on the number and amount of contracts, grants, and cooperative 
agreements exceeding $500,000 in value and awarded by the Department on 
a non-competitive basis during each quarter of fiscal year 2015, but 
not to include grants awarded on a formula basis or directed by law. 
Such report shall include the name of the contractor or grantee, the 
amount of funding, the governmental purpose, including a justification 
for issuing the award on a non-competitive basis. Such report shall be 
transmitted to the Committees within 30 days after the end of the 
quarter for which the report is submitted.

                              (rescission)

    Sec. 518.  Of the funds made available for performance bonus 
payments under section 2105(a)(3)(E) of the Social Security Act, 
$1,751,000,000 are hereby rescinded.
    Sec. 519.  Not later than 30 days after the end of each calendar 
quarter, beginning with the first quarter of fiscal year 2013, the 
Departments of Labor, Health and Human Services and Education and the 
Social Security Administration shall provide the Committees on 
Appropriations of the House of Representatives and Senate a quarterly 
report on the status of balances of appropriations:  Provided, That for 
balances that are unobligated and uncommitted, committed, and obligated 
but unexpended, the quarterly reports shall separately identify the 
amounts attributable to each source year of appropriation (beginning 
with fiscal year 2012, or, to the extent feasible, earlier fiscal 
years) from which balances were derived.
    Sec. 520. (a) Federal agencies may use Federal discretionary funds 
that are made available in this Act to carry out up to 10 Performance 
Partnership Pilots. Such Pilots shall:
            (1) be designed to improve outcomes for disconnected youth, 
        and
            (2) involve Federal programs targeted on disconnected 
        youth, or designed to prevent youth from disconnecting from 
        school or work, that provide education, training, employment, 
        and other related social services. Such Pilots shall be 
        governed by the provisions of section 526 of the Departments of 
        Labor, Health and Human Services, and Education, and Related 
        Agencies Appropriations Act, 2014, except that in carrying out 
        such Pilots section 526 shall be applied by substituting 
        ``fiscal year 2015'' for ``fiscal year 2014'' in the title of 
        subsection (b) and by substituting ``September 30, 2019'' for`` 
        September 30, 2018'' each place it appears.
    (b) In addition, Federal agencies may use Federal discretionary 
funds that are made available in this Act to participate in Performance 
Partnership Pilots that are being carried out pursuant to the authority 
provided by section 526 of the Departments of Labor, Health and Human 
Services, and Education, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2014.
    Sec. 521.  Each Federal agency, or in the case of an agency with 
multiple bureaus, each bureau (or operating division) funded under this 
Act that has research and development expenditures in excess of 
$100,000,000 per year shall develop a Federal research public access 
policy that provides for--
            (1) the submission to the agency, agency bureau, or 
        designated entity acting on behalf of the agency, a machine-
        readable version of the author's final peer-reviewed 
        manuscripts that have been accepted for publication in peer-
        reviewed journals describing research supported, in whole or in 
        part, from funding by the Federal Government;
            (2) free online public access to such final peer-reviewed 
        manuscripts or published versions not later than 12 months 
        after the official date of publication; and
            (3) compliance with all relevant copyright laws.
    Sec. 522. (a) None of the funds made available in this Act may be 
used to maintain or establish a computer network unless such network 
blocks the viewing, downloading, and exchanging of pornography.
    (b) Nothing in subsection (a) shall limit the use of funds 
necessary for any Federal, State, tribal, or local law enforcement 
agency or any other entity carrying out criminal investigations, 
prosecution, or adjudication activities.
    Sec. 523.  Of the funds made available under section 108 of Public 
Law 111-3, $9,532,200,000 are hereby rescinded.
    Sec. 524.  For purposes of carrying out executive order 13589, 
Office of Management and Budget Memorandum M-12-12 dated May 11, 2012, 
and requirements contained in the annual appropriations bills relating 
to conference attendance and expenditures:
     (a) the operating divisions of HHS shall be considered independent 
agencies; and
    (b) attendance at and support for scientific conferences shall be 
tabulated separately from and not included in agency totals.
    Sec. 525. (a) None of the funds in this Act may be available for 
agencies, or in the case of an agency with multiple bureaus, each 
bureau (or operating division) to support:
            (1) More than 50 agency employees on official travel away 
        from their duty station to attend a particular conference; or
            (2) More than $1,000,000 for sponsoring a conference.
    (b) This section shall not apply to conferences that are scientific 
in nature or scope.
    Sec. 526.  None of the funds in this Act may be used for third 
party, nongovernmental certification for seafood sustainability.
    Sec. 527. (a) In General.--None of the funds appropriated or 
otherwise made available by this Act may be used for any Federal 
Government contract with--
            (1) any foreign incorporated entity which is treated as an 
        inverted domestic corporation under section 835(b) of the 
        Homeland Security Act of 2002 (6 U.S.C. 395(b)), except that 
        ``more than 50 percent'' shall be substituted for ``at least 80 
        percent'' each place it appears therein; or
            (2) any subsidiary of such an entity.
    (b) Waivers.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary shall waive subsection (a) 
        with respect to any Federal Government contract under the 
        authority of the Secretary if the Secretary determines that the 
        waiver is required in the interest of national security.
            (2) Notification to congress.--Upon issuing a waiver under 
        paragraph (1), the Secretary shall notify Congress of the 
        waiver.
    (c) Exception.--This section shall not apply to any Federal 
Government contract entered into before the date of enactment of this 
Act, or to any task or delivery order issued pursuant to such a 
contract.
    (d) Secretary Defined.--In this section, the term ``Secretary'' 
means each of the following:
            (1) The Secretary of Labor.
            (2) The Secretary of Health and Human Services.
            (3) The Secretary of Education.
    This Act may be cited as the ``Departments of Labor, Health and 
Human Services, and Education, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 
2015''.
                                 <all>
