
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 124 Introduced in House (IH)]

113th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                H. R. 124

To redesignate the Department of the Navy as the Department of the Navy 
                           and Marine Corps.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                            January 3, 2013

    Mr. Jones (for himself and Mr. Broun of Georgia) introduced the 
 following bill; which was referred to the Committee on Armed Services

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
To redesignate the Department of the Navy as the Department of the Navy 
                           and Marine Corps.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. REDESIGNATION OF THE DEPARTMENT OF THE NAVY AS THE 
              DEPARTMENT OF THE NAVY AND MARINE CORPS.

    (a) Redesignation of Military Department.--The military department 
designated as the Department of the Navy is redesignated as the 
Department of the Navy and Marine Corps.
    (b) Redesignation of Secretary and Other Statutory Offices.--
            (1) Secretary.--The position of the Secretary of the Navy 
        is redesignated as the Secretary of the Navy and Marine Corps.
            (2) Other statutory offices.--The positions of the Under 
        Secretary of the Navy, the four Assistant Secretaries of the 
        Navy, and the General Counsel of the Department of the Navy are 
        redesignated as the Under Secretary of the Navy and Marine 
        Corps, the Assistant Secretaries of the Navy and Marine Corps, 
        and the General Counsel of the Department of the Navy and 
        Marine Corps, respectively.

SEC. 2. CONFORMING AMENDMENTS TO TITLE 10, UNITED STATES CODE.

    (a) Definition of ``Military Department''.--Paragraph (8) of 
section 101(a) of title 10, United States Code, is amended to read as 
follows:
            ``(8) The term `military department' means the Department 
        of the Army, the Department of the Navy and Marine Corps, and 
        the Department of the Air Force.''.
    (b) Organization of Department.--The text of section 5011 of such 
title is amended to read as follows: ``The Department of the Navy and 
Marine Corps is separately organized under the Secretary of the Navy 
and Marine Corps.''.
    (c) Position of Secretary.--Section 5013(a)(1) of such title is 
amended by striking ``There is a Secretary of the Navy'' and inserting 
``There is a Secretary of the Navy and Marine Corps''.
    (d) Chapter Headings.--
            (1) The heading of chapter 503 of such title is amended to 
        read as follows:

       ``CHAPTER 503--DEPARTMENT OF THE NAVY AND MARINE CORPS''.

            (2) The heading of chapter 507 of such title is amended to 
        read as follows:

  ``CHAPTER 507--COMPOSITION OF THE DEPARTMENT OF THE NAVY AND MARINE 
                                CORPS''.

    (e) Other Amendments.--
            (1) Title 10, United States Code, is amended by striking 
        ``Department of the Navy'' and ``Secretary of the Navy'' each 
        place they appear other than as specified in subsections (a), 
        (b), (c), and (d) (including in section headings, subsection 
        captions, tables of chapters, and tables of sections) and 
        inserting ``Department of the Navy and Marine Corps'' and 
        ``Secretary of the Navy and Marine Corps'', respectively, in 
        each case with the matter inserted to be in the same typeface 
        and typestyle as the matter stricken.
            (2)(A) Sections 5013(f), 5014(b)(2), 5016(a), 5017(2), 
        5032(a), and 5042(a) of such title are amended by striking 
        ``Assistant Secretaries of the Navy'' and inserting ``Assistant 
        Secretaries of the Navy and Marine Corps''.
            (B) The heading of section 5016 of such title, and the item 
        relating to such section in the table of sections at the 
        beginning of chapter 503 of such title, are each amended by 
        inserting ``and Marine Corps'' after ``of the Navy'', with the 
        matter inserted in each case to be in the same typeface and 
        typestyle as the matter amended.

SEC. 3. OTHER PROVISIONS OF LAW AND OTHER REFERENCES.

    (a) Title 37, United States Code.--Title 37, United States Code, is 
amended by striking ``Department of the Navy'' and ``Secretary of the 
Navy'' each place they appear and inserting ``Department of the Navy 
and Marine Corps'' and ``Secretary of the Navy and Marine Corps'', 
respectively.
    (b) Other References.--Any reference in any law other than in title 
10 or title 37, United States Code, or in any regulation, document, 
record, or other paper of the United States, to the Department of the 
Navy shall be considered to be a reference to the Department of the 
Navy and Marine Corps. Any such reference to an office specified in 
section 2(b) shall be considered to be a reference to that officer as 
redesignated by that section.

SEC. 4. EFFECTIVE DATE.

    This Act and the amendments made by this Act shall take effect on 
the first day of the first month beginning more than 60 days after the 
date of the enactment of this Act.
                                 <all>
