
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 372 Introduced in House (IH)]

113th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                H. R. 372

  To amend title 31, United States Code, to eliminate the requirement 
 that the President submit a budget to the Congress each year, and for 
                            other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                            January 23, 2013

Mr. Broun of Georgia introduced the following bill; which was referred 
 to the Committee on the Budget, and in addition to the Committees on 
House Administration, Oversight and Government Reform, and Rules, for a 
 period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
consideration of such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the 
                          committee concerned

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
  To amend title 31, United States Code, to eliminate the requirement 
 that the President submit a budget to the Congress each year, and for 
                            other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Budget or Bust Act''.

SEC. 2. REPEAL OF REQUIREMENT THAT PRESIDENT SUBMIT ANNUAL BUDGET TO 
              CONGRESS.

    Sections 1105 and 1106 of title 31, United States Code, are 
repealed.

SEC. 3. CHANGE IN CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET PROCESS TIMETABLE.

    Section 300 of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974 is amended by 
striking ``April 1'' and inserting ``March 15'' and by striking ``April 
15'' and inserting ``April 1''.

SEC. 4. HOLDING SALARIES OF MEMBERS OF CONGRESS IN ESCROW IF CONGRESS 
              FAILS TO ADOPT BUDGET RESOLUTION.

    (a) Escrow.--If on or before April 1 of any year Congress does not 
adopt a concurrent resolution on the budget for the fiscal year that 
begins on October 1 of that year, the Secretary of the Treasury shall 
deposit all payments otherwise required to be made for the compensation 
of Members of Congress in an escrow account, and shall release such 
payments to the Members only upon the adoption by Congress of a 
concurrent resolution on the budget for that fiscal year.
    (b) Withholding and Remittance of Amounts From Payments Held in 
Escrow.--The Secretary of the Treasury shall provide for the same 
withholding and remittance with respect to a payment deposited in an 
escrow account under subsection (a) that would apply to the payment if 
the payment were not subject to subsection (a).
    (c) Coordination With House and Senate.--The Secretary of the 
Treasury shall enter into such agreements with the Chief Administrative 
Officer of the House of Representatives and the Secretary of the Senate 
as may be necessary to carry out this section.
    (d) Member of Congress Defined.--In this section, the term ``Member 
of Congress'' means an individual serving in a position under 
subparagraph (A), (B), or (C) of section 601(a) of the Legislative 
Reorganization Act of 1946 (2 U.S.C. 31).

SEC. 5. EFFECTIVE DATE.

    This Act shall apply with respect to fiscal year 2015 and each 
succeeding fiscal year.
                                 <all>
