
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[S. 1678 Introduced in Senate (IS)]

113th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                S. 1678

To amend subchapter II of chapter 84 of title 5, United States Code, to 
 prohibit coverage for annuity purposes for new Federal employees, and 
                          for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                           November 12, 2013

 Mr. Burr (for himself, Mr. Coburn, and Mr. Chambliss) introduced the 
 following bill; which was read twice and referred to the Committee on 
               Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
To amend subchapter II of chapter 84 of title 5, United States Code, to 
 prohibit coverage for annuity purposes for new Federal employees, and 
                          for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Public-Private Employee Retirement 
Parity Act''.

SEC. 2. TERMINATION OF ANNUITIES UNDER THE FEDERAL EMPLOYEES RETIREMENT 
              SYSTEM.

    (a) Creditable Service.--Section 8411 of title 5, United States 
Code, is amended--
            (1) in subsection (b)(1), by inserting ``except as provided 
        under subsection (m),'' after ``(1)''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following:
    ``(m) Notwithstanding any other provision of this section, any 
period of service performed by an employee or Member on or after the 
date that is 6 months after the date of enactment of the Public-Private 
Employee Retirement Parity Act shall not be creditable service for 
purposes of this subchapter, if that employee or Member did not perform 
any period of creditable service under this section before the date 
that is 6 months after the date of enactment of the Public-Private 
Employee Retirement Parity Act (including any military service 
creditable under subsection (c)).''.
    (b) Employee Contributions.--Section 8422 of title 5, United States 
Code, is amended--
            (1) in subsection (a)(1), by striking ``The'' and inserting 
        ``Except as provided under subsection (j), the''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following:
    ``(j) Notwithstanding any other provision of this section, an 
employing agency shall not make any deduction or withholding under this 
section from the basic pay of any employee or Member for any period of 
service performed on or after the date that is 6 months after the date 
of enactment of the Public-Private Employee Retirement Parity Act, if 
that period of service is not creditable service under section 
8411(m).''.
    (c) Agency Contributions.--Section 8423 of title 5, United States 
Code, is amended--
            (1) in subsection (a)(1), by striking ``Each'' and 
        inserting ``Except as provided under subsection (d), each''; 
        and
            (2) by adding at the end the following:
    ``(d) Notwithstanding any other provision of this section, an 
employing agency shall not make any contribution under this section for 
any employee or Member for any period of service performed on or after 
the date that is 6 months after the date of enactment of the Public-
Private Employee Retirement Parity Act, if that period of service is 
not creditable service under section 8411(m).''.
    (d) Limitation on Credit for Military Service.--
            (1) In general.--Section 8411(c) of title 5, United States 
        Code, is amended--
                    (A) in paragraph (1), by striking ``paragraphs (2), 
                (3), and (5)'' and inserting ``paragraphs (2), (3), 
                (5), and (6)''; and
                    (B) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(6) Notwithstanding any other provision of this 
        subsection, any period of military service performed on or 
        after the date that is 6 months after the date of enactment of 
        the Public-Private Employee Retirement Parity Act shall not be 
        allowed credit under this subchapter, if the employee or Member 
        did not perform any period of creditable service under this 
        section before the date that is 6 months after the date of 
        enactment of the Public-Private Employee Retirement Parity 
        Act.''.
            (2) Contributions.--Section 8422(e)(1)(A) of title 5, 
        United States Code, is amended by striking ``Except as provided 
        in subparagraph (B), and subject to paragraph (6),'' and 
        inserting ``Except as provided under section 8411(c)(6) and 
        subparagraph (B) of this paragraph, and subject to paragraph 
        (6) of this subsection,''.

SEC. 3. REPORTING REGARDING CSRDF.

    (a) In General.--Section 8347(f) of title 5, United States Code, is 
amended by striking ``The Board shall report annually on the actuarial 
status of the System'' and inserting ``Not later than 6 months after 
the date of enactment of the Public-Private Employee Retirement Parity 
Act, and every year thereafter, the Board shall issue an annual report, 
including making the report available online, on the actuarial status 
of the System and the Federal Employees Retirement System under chapter 
84''.
    (b) Availability of Previous Reports.--The Board of Actuaries of 
the Civil Service Retirement System shall make available online all 
reports under section 8347(f) prepared on or after June 6, 1986.
                                 <all>
