
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[S.J. Res. 5 Introduced in Senate (IS)]

113th CONGRESS
  1st Session
S. J. RES. 5

    Proposing an amendment to the Constitution of the United States 
 relative to authorizing regulation of contributions to candidates for 
   State public office and Federal office by corporations, entities 
    organized and operated for profit, and labor organizations, and 
expenditures by such entities and labor organizations in support of, or 
                     opposition to such candidates.


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                            January 28, 2013

Mr. Baucus (for himself and Mr. Tester) introduced the following joint 
 resolution; which was read twice and referred to the Committee on the 
                               Judiciary

_______________________________________________________________________

                            JOINT RESOLUTION


 
    Proposing an amendment to the Constitution of the United States 
 relative to authorizing regulation of contributions to candidates for 
   State public office and Federal office by corporations, entities 
    organized and operated for profit, and labor organizations, and 
expenditures by such entities and labor organizations in support of, or 
                     opposition to such candidates.

    Resolved by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United 
States of America in Congress assembled (two-thirds of each House 
concurring therein), That the following article is proposed as an 
amendment to the Constitution of the United States, which shall be 
valid to all intents and purposes as part of the Constitution when 
ratified by the legislatures of three-fourths of the several States 
within seven years after the date of its submission by the Congress:

                              ``Article--

    ``Section 1. Congress shall have the power to regulate the 
contribution of funds by corporations, entities organized and operated 
for profit, and labor organizations to a candidate for election to, or 
for nomination for election to, a Federal office, and the power to 
regulate the expenditure of funds by corporations, entities organized 
and operated for profit, and labor organizations made in support of, or 
opposition to, such candidates.
    ``Section 2. A State shall have the power to regulate the 
contribution of funds by corporations, entities organized and operated 
for profit, and labor organizations to a candidate for election to, or 
for nomination for election to, public office in the State, and the 
power to regulate the expenditure of funds by corporations, entities 
organized and operated for profit, and labor organizations made in 
support of, or opposition to, such candidates.
    ``Section 3. Nothing contained in this Amendment shall be construed 
to allow Congress or a State to make any law abridging the freedom of 
the press.''.
                                 <all>
