
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 3326 Introduced in House (IH)]

113th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                H. R. 3326

 To provide for an exchange of land between the United States and the 
   Trinity Public Utilities District of Trinity County, California, 
  involving a parcel of National Forest System land in Shasta-Trinity 
                            National Forest.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                            October 23, 2013

 Mr. Huffman introduced the following bill; which was referred to the 
                     Committee on Natural Resources

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
 To provide for an exchange of land between the United States and the 
   Trinity Public Utilities District of Trinity County, California, 
  involving a parcel of National Forest System land in Shasta-Trinity 
                            National Forest.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Trinity County Land Exchange Act of 
2013''.

SEC. 2. LAND EXCHANGE, TRINITY PUBLIC UTILITIES DISTRICT, TRINITY 
              COUNTY, CALIFORNIA, THE BUREAU OF LAND MANAGEMENT, AND 
              THE FOREST SERVICE.

    (a) Land Exchange Required.--If the Utilities District conveys to 
the Secretary of the Interior all right, title, and interest of the 
Utilities District in and to Parcel A, the Secretary of Agriculture 
shall convey to the Utilities District, in exchange, all right, title, 
and interest of the United States in and to Parcel B.
    (b) Availability of Maps and Legal Descriptions.--Any map prepared 
by the Secretary of the Interior or the Secretary of Agriculture in 
connection with a conveyance under subsection (a), and the legal 
description of Parcel A and Parcel B, shall be on file and available 
for public inspection in the Office of the Chief of the Forest Service 
and the appropriate office of the Bureau of Land Management. With the 
agreement of the parties to the conveyances under subsection (a), the 
Secretary of the Interior and the Secretary of Agriculture may make 
technical corrections to the maps and legal descriptions.
    (c) Equal Value Exchange.--
            (1) Land exchange process.--The land exchange under this 
        section is intended to be an equal value exchange. Except as 
        provided in paragraph (3), the Secretary of the Interior and 
        the Secretary of Agriculture shall carry out the land exchange 
        in accordance with section 206 of the Federal Land Policy and 
        Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1716).
            (2) Appraisal of parcels.--The values of Parcel A and 
        Parcel B shall by determined by appraisals performed by a 
        qualified appraiser mutually agreed to by the parties to the 
        conveyances under subsection (a). The appraisals shall be 
        performed in conformance with the Uniform Appraisal Standards 
        for Federal Land Acquisitions.
            (3) Cash equalization.--If the values of Parcel A and 
        Parcel B are not equal, the values may be equalized through the 
        use of a cash equalization payment. Notwithstanding section 
        206(b) of the Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 
        (43 U.S.C. 1716(b)), a cash equalization payment may be made in 
        excess of 25 percent of the appraised value of the Parcel B.
    (d) Disposition of Proceeds.--
            (1) In general.--Any cash equalization payment received by 
        the United States under subsection (c) shall be deposited in 
        the fund established under Public Law 90-171 (16 U.S.C. 484a; 
        commonly known as the Sisk Act).
            (2) Use of proceeds.--Amounts deposited under paragraph (1) 
        shall be available to the Secretary of Agriculture, without 
        further appropriation and until expended, for the acquisition 
        of land or interests in land in California for inclusion in the 
        National Forest System.
    (e) Survey and Administrative Costs.--The exact acreage and legal 
description of Parcel A and Parcel B shall be determined by a survey 
satisfactory to the Secretary of the Interior and the Secretary of 
Agriculture. The Utilities District shall be responsible for the costs 
of the survey. The Federal Government and the Utilities District shall 
share in other administrative costs of the land exchange under this 
section.
    (f) Management of Acquired Land.--Upon the acquisition of Parcel A, 
the Secretary of the Interior, acting through the Redding Field Office 
of the Bureau of Land Management, shall administer Parcel A as public 
land in accordance with the Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 
1976 (43 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.) and the laws and regulations applicable 
to public land administered by the Bureau of Land Management.
    (g) Completion of Land Exchange.--The Secretary of Agriculture 
shall complete the conveyance of Parcel B not later than one year after 
the date on which the Utilities District offers to convey Parcel A to 
the Secretary of the Interior.
    (h) Definitions.--For the purposes of this section:
            (1) Parcel A.--The term ``Parcel A'' means the 
        approximately 47 acres of land, known as the ``Sky Ranch 
        parcel'', adjacent to public land administered by the Redding 
        Field Office of the Bureau of Land Management.
            (2) Parcel B.--The term ``Parcel B'' means the 
        approximately 100 acres land in the Shasta-Trinity National 
        Forest in the State of California near the Weaverville Airport 
        in Trinity County.
            (3) Utilities district.--The term ``Utilities District'' 
        means the Trinity Public Utilities District of Trinity County, 
        California.
                                 <all>
