
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 4632 Introduced in House (IH)]

113th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                H. R. 4632

To prohibit the use of funds provided for the official travel expenses 
    of Members of Congress and other officers and employees of the 
legislative branch for airline accommodations which are not coach-class 
                accommodations, and for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                              May 9, 2014

Mr. Gosar (for himself, Mr. Jones, Mr. Ruiz, and Mr. Barrow of Georgia) 
 introduced the following bill; which was referred to the Committee on 
                          House Administration

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
To prohibit the use of funds provided for the official travel expenses 
    of Members of Congress and other officers and employees of the 
legislative branch for airline accommodations which are not coach-class 
                accommodations, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``If Our Military Has to Fly Coach 
Then so Should Congress Act of 2014''.

SEC. 2. PROHIBITING USE OF FUNDS FOR OFFICIAL TRAVEL EXPENSES OF 
              MEMBERS OF CONGRESS AND LEGISLATIVE BRANCH EMPLOYEES FOR 
              AIRLINE ACCOMMODATIONS OTHER THAN COACH-CLASS.

    (a) Prohibition.--Except as provided in subsection (b), no funds 
appropriated or otherwise made available for the official travel 
expenses of a Member of Congress or other officer or employee of any 
office in the legislative branch may be used for airline accommodations 
which are not coach-class accommodations.
    (b) Exceptions.--Funds described in subsection (a) may be used for 
airline accommodations which are not coach-class accommodations for an 
individual described in subsection (a) if the use of the funds for such 
accommodations would be permitted under sections 301-10.121 through 
301-10.125 of title 41 of the Code of Federal Regulations if the 
individual were an employee of an agency which is subject to chapter 
301 of such title.
    (c) Rule of Construction.--Nothing in this Act may be construed to 
affect any officer or employee of an office of the legislative branch 
which, as of the date of the enactment of this Act, is subject to 
chapter 301 of title 41 of the Code of Federal Regulations.
    (d) Definitions.--
            (1) Coach-class accommodations.--In this Act, the term 
        ``coach-class accommodations'' means the basic class of 
        accommodation by airlines that is normally the lowest fare 
        offered regardless of airline terminology used, and (as 
        referred to by airlines) may include tourist class or economy 
        class, as well as single class when the airline offers only one 
        class of accommodations to all travelers.
            (2) Member of congress.--In this Act, the term ``Member of 
        Congress'' means a Senator or a Representative in, or Delegate 
        or Resident Commissioner to, the Congress.

SEC. 3. EFFECTIVE DATE.

    This Act shall apply with respect to fiscal year 2015 and each 
succeeding fiscal year.
                                 <all>
