
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 2956 Introduced in House (IH)]

113th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                H. R. 2956

 To eliminate unnecessary oil tax credits and subsidies for major oil 
                 companies to reduce the national debt.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                             August 1, 2013

 Mr. Murphy of Florida (for himself, Mr. Blumenauer, Ms. Esty, and Mr. 
   Barber) introduced the following bill; which was referred to the 
   Committee on Ways and Means, and in addition to the Committee on 
 Natural Resources, for a period to be subsequently determined by the 
  Speaker, in each case for consideration of such provisions as fall 
           within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
 To eliminate unnecessary oil tax credits and subsidies for major oil 
                 companies to reduce the national debt.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``End Welfare for Big Oil Act of 
2013''.

                TITLE I--REPEAL OF OIL AND GAS SUBSIDIES

                Subtitle A--Close Big Oil Tax Loopholes

SEC. 101. MODIFICATIONS OF FOREIGN TAX CREDIT RULES APPLICABLE TO MAJOR 
              INTEGRATED OIL COMPANIES WHICH ARE DUAL CAPACITY 
              TAXPAYERS.

    (a) In General.--Section 901 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 
is amended by redesignating subsection (n) as subsection (o) and by 
inserting after subsection (m) the following new subsection:
    ``(n) Special Rules Relating to Major Integrated Oil Companies 
Which Are Dual Capacity Taxpayers.--
            ``(1) General rule.--Notwithstanding any other provision of 
        this chapter, any amount paid or accrued by a dual capacity 
        taxpayer which is a major integrated oil company (as defined in 
        section 167(h)(5)(B)) to a foreign country or possession of the 
        United States for any period shall not be considered a tax--
                    ``(A) if, for such period, the foreign country or 
                possession does not impose a generally applicable 
                income tax, or
                    ``(B) to the extent such amount exceeds the amount 
                (determined in accordance with regulations) which--
                            ``(i) is paid by such dual capacity 
                        taxpayer pursuant to the generally applicable 
                        income tax imposed by the country or 
                        possession, or
                            ``(ii) would be paid if the generally 
                        applicable income tax imposed by the country or 
                        possession were applicable to such dual 
                        capacity taxpayer.
        Nothing in this paragraph shall be construed to imply the 
        proper treatment of any such amount not in excess of the amount 
        determined under subparagraph (B).
            ``(2) Dual capacity taxpayer.--For purposes of this 
        subsection, the term `dual capacity taxpayer' means, with 
        respect to any foreign country or possession of the United 
        States, a person who--
                    ``(A) is subject to a levy of such country or 
                possession, and
                    ``(B) receives (or will receive) directly or 
                indirectly a specific economic benefit (as determined 
                in accordance with regulations) from such country or 
                possession.
            ``(3) Generally applicable income tax.--For purposes of 
        this subsection--
                    ``(A) In general.--The term `generally applicable 
                income tax' means an income tax (or a series of income 
                taxes) which is generally imposed under the laws of a 
                foreign country or possession on income derived from 
                the conduct of a trade or business within such country 
                or possession.
                    ``(B) Exceptions.--Such term shall not include a 
                tax unless it has substantial application, by its terms 
                and in practice, to--
                            ``(i) persons who are not dual capacity 
                        taxpayers, and
                            ``(ii) persons who are citizens or 
                        residents of the foreign country or 
                        possession.''.
    (b) Effective Date.--
            (1) In general.--The amendments made by this section shall 
        apply to taxes paid or accrued in taxable years beginning after 
        the date of the enactment of this Act.
            (2) Contrary treaty obligations upheld.--The amendments 
        made by this section shall not apply to the extent contrary to 
        any treaty obligation of the United States.

SEC. 102. LIMITATION ON SECTION 199 DEDUCTION ATTRIBUTABLE TO OIL, 
              NATURAL GAS, OR PRIMARY PRODUCTS THEREOF.

    (a) Denial of Deduction.--Paragraph (4) of section 199(c) of the 
Internal Revenue Code of 1986 is amended by adding at the end the 
following new subparagraph:
                    ``(E) Special rule for certain oil and gas 
                income.--In the case of any taxpayer who is a major 
                integrated oil company (as defined in section 
                167(h)(5)(B)) for the taxable year, the term `domestic 
                production gross receipts' shall not include gross 
                receipts from the production, transportation, or 
                distribution of oil, natural gas, or any primary 
                product (within the meaning of subsection (d)(9)) 
                thereof.''.
    (b) Effective Date.--The amendment made by this section shall apply 
to taxable years beginning after December 31, 2013.

SEC. 103. LIMITATION ON DEDUCTION FOR INTANGIBLE DRILLING AND 
              DEVELOPMENT COSTS.

    (a) In General.--Section 263(c) of the Internal Revenue Code of 
1986 is amended by adding at the end the following new sentence: ``This 
subsection shall not apply to amounts paid or incurred by a taxpayer in 
any taxable year in which such taxpayer is a major integrated oil 
company (as defined in section 167(h)(5)(B)).''.
    (b) Effective Date.--The amendment made by this section shall apply 
to amounts paid or incurred in taxable years beginning after December 
31, 2013.

SEC. 104. LIMITATION ON PERCENTAGE DEPLETION ALLOWANCE FOR OIL AND GAS 
              WELLS.

    (a) In General.--Section 613A of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 
is amended by adding at the end the following new subsection:
    ``(f) Application With Respect to Major Integrated Oil Companies.--
In the case of any taxable year in which the taxpayer is a major 
integrated oil company (as defined in section 167(h)(5)(B)), the 
allowance for percentage depletion shall be zero.''.
    (b) Effective Date.--The amendment made by this section shall apply 
to taxable years beginning after December 31, 2013.

SEC. 105. LIMITATION ON DEDUCTION FOR TERTIARY INJECTANTS.

    (a) In General.--Section 193 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 
is amended by adding at the end the following new subsection:
    ``(d) Application With Respect to Major Integrated Oil Companies.--
This section shall not apply to amounts paid or incurred by a taxpayer 
in any taxable year in which such taxpayer is a major integrated oil 
company (as defined in section 167(h)(5)(B)).''.
    (b) Effective Date.--The amendment made by this section shall apply 
to amounts paid or incurred in taxable years beginning after December 
31, 2013.

        Subtitle B--Outer Continental Shelf Oil and Natural Gas

SEC. 111. REPEAL OF OUTER CONTINENTAL SHELF DEEP WATER AND DEEP GAS 
              ROYALTY RELIEF.

    (a) In General.--Sections 344 and 345 of the Energy Policy Act of 
2005 (42 U.S.C. 15904, 15905) are repealed.
    (b) Limitation on Application.--The repeal under subsection (a) 
shall not affect the application of the repealed sections with respect 
to any lease sale for which a notice of sale is published before the 
date of enactment of this Act.

                      TITLE II--BUDGETARY EFFECTS

SEC. 201. DEFICIT REDUCTION.

    The net amount of any savings realized as a result of the enactment 
of this Act and the amendments made by this Act (after any expenditures 
authorized by this Act and the amendments made by this Act) shall be 
deposited in the Treasury and used for Federal budget deficit reduction 
or, if there is no Federal budget deficit, for reducing the Federal 
debt in such manner as the Secretary of the Treasury considers 
appropriate.
                                 <all>
