
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 5357 Introduced in House (IH)]

113th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                H. R. 5357

  To authorize a national memorial to commemorate those killed by the 
  collapse of the Saint Francis Dam on March 12, 1928, and for other 
                               purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                             July 31, 2014

  Mr. McKeon introduced the following bill; which was referred to the 
                     Committee on Natural Resources

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
  To authorize a national memorial to commemorate those killed by the 
  collapse of the Saint Francis Dam on March 12, 1928, and for other 
                               purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Saint Francis Dam Disaster National 
Memorial Act''.

SEC. 2. FINDINGS AND PURPOSES.

    (a) Findings.--Congress finds the following:
            (1) On March 12, 1928, the Saint Francis Dam located in the 
        northern portion of Los Angeles County, California, breached, 
        resulting in a flood resulting in the death of approximately 
        600 individuals.
            (2) The residents of the Santa Clarita Valley, San 
        Francisquito Canyon, Castaic Junction, Santa Clara River 
        Valley, Piru, Fillmore, Bardsdale, Saticoy, and Santa Paula 
        were devastated by the worst flood that the State of California 
        has ever experienced.
            (3) This disaster resulted in a tremendous loss of human 
        life, property, and livelihood, and was surpassed in the 20th 
        century only by the great San Francisco Earthquake of 1906.
            (4) The dam's collapse may represent America's worst civil 
        engineering failure in the 20th century.
            (5) It is right to pay homage to the citizens who perished, 
        were injured, or were dislocated in the flood, and to bring to 
        light and educate the general public about this important 
        historical event.
            (6) The site is subject to the theft of historic artifacts, 
        graffiti, and other vandalism.
            (7) The site has important historic and environmental 
        significance.
            (8) It is appropriate that the site of the Saint Francis 
        Dam and surrounding areas be designated a unit of the National 
        Park System to commemorate this tragic event.
    (b) Purposes.--The purposes of this Act are as follows:
            (1) To establish a national memorial to honor the victims 
        of the Saint Francis Dam disaster of March 12, 1928.
            (2) To establish the Saint Francis Dam Advisory Commission 
        to assist with consideration and formulation of plans for a 
        permanent memorial to the victims of that disaster, including 
        its nature, design, and construction.
            (3) To permanently protect the historical scene of the 
        Saint Francis Dam and educate the general public about this 
        historic event.
            (4) To authorize the Secretary of the Interior to 
        coordinate and facilitate the activities of the Saint Francis 
        Dam Advisory Commission, provide technical and financial 
        assistance to the Saint Francis Dam Task Force, and to 
        administer a Saint Francis Dam memorial.

SEC. 3. MEMORIAL TO HONOR THE VICTIMS OF THE SAINT FRANCIS DAM 
              DISASTER.

    There is established a memorial at the Saint Francis Dam site in 
the County of Los Angeles, California, to honor the victims of the 
Saint Francis Dam disaster of March 12, 1928, which shall be--
            (1) known as the Saint Francis Dam Disaster National 
        Memorial; and
            (2) located within the Saint Francis Dam Disaster National 
        Monument.

SEC. 4. SAINT FRANCIS DAM ADVISORY COMMISSION.

    (a) Establishment.--There is established a commission to be known 
as the ``Saint Francis Dam Advisory Commission''.
    (b) Membership.--The Commission shall consist of 15 members, 
including the Director of the National Park Service, or the Director's 
designee, and 14 members appointed by the Secretary of the Interior.
    (c) Term.--The term of the members of the Commission shall be for 
the life of the Commission.
    (d) Chair.--The members of the Commission shall select the Chair of 
the Commission.
    (e) Vacancies.--Any vacancy in the Commission shall not affect its 
powers if a quorum is present, but shall be filled in the same manner 
as the original appointment.
    (f) Meetings.--The Commission shall meet at the call of the 
Chairperson or a majority of the members, but not less often than 
quarterly. The Commission shall publish notice of the Commission 
meetings and agendas for the meetings in local newspapers in the 
vicinity of Los Angeles County and in the Federal Register. Meetings of 
the Commission shall be subject to section 552b of title 5, United 
States Code (relating to open meetings).
    (g) Quorum.--A majority of the members serving on the Commission 
shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of any business.
    (h) No Compensation.--Members of the Commission shall serve without 
compensation, but may be reimbursed for expenses incurred in carrying 
out the duties of the Commission.
    (i) Duties.--The duties of the Commission shall be as follows:
            (1) Not later than 2 years after the date of the enactment 
        of this Act, the Commission shall submit to the Secretary of 
        the Interior and Congress a report containing recommendations 
        for the planning, design, construction, and long-term 
        management of a permanent memorial at the dam site.
            (2) The Commission shall advise the Secretary of the 
        Interior on the boundaries of the Memorial site.
            (3) The Commission shall advise the Secretary of the 
        Interior in the development of a management plan for the 
        Memorial site.
            (4) The Commission shall consult and coordinate closely 
        with the Saint Francis Dam Task Force, the State of California, 
        and other interested persons, as appropriate, to support and 
        not supplant the efforts of the Saint Francis Dam Task Force on 
        and before the date of the enactment of this Act to commemorate 
        the Saint Francis Dam disaster.
            (5) The Commission shall provide significant opportunities 
        for public participation in the planning and design of the 
        Memorial.
    (j) Powers.--The Commission may--
            (1) make such expenditures for services and materials for 
        the purpose of carrying out this Act as the Commission 
        considers advisable from funds appropriated or received as 
        gifts for that purpose;
            (2) subject to approval by the Secretary of the Interior, 
        solicit and accept donations of funds and gifts, personal 
        property, supplies, and services from individuals, foundations, 
        corporations, and other private or public entities to be used 
        in connection with the construction or other expenses of the 
        Memorial;
            (3) hold hearings and enter into contracts for personal 
        services;
            (4) do such other things as are necessary to carry out this 
        Act; and
            (5) by a vote of the majority of the Commission, delegate 
        such of its duties as it determines appropriate to employees of 
        the National Park Service.
    (k) Termination.--The Commission shall terminate upon dedication of 
the completed Memorial.

SEC. 5. DUTIES OF THE SECRETARY OF THE INTERIOR WITH RESPECT TO 
              MEMORIAL.

    The Secretary may--
            (1) provide assistance to the Commission, including advice 
        on collections, storage, and archives;
            (2) consult and assist the Commission in providing 
        information, interpretation, and the conduct of oral history 
        interviews;
            (3) provide assistance in conducting public meetings and 
        forums held by the Commission;
            (4) provide project management assistance to the Commission 
        for planning, design, and construction activities;
            (5) provide programming and design assistance to the 
        Commission for possible Memorial exhibits, collections, or 
        activities;
            (6) provide staff assistance and support to the Commission 
        and the Saint Francis Dam Task Force;
            (7) participate in the formulation of plans for the design 
        of the Memorial, accept funds raised by the Commission for 
        construction of the Memorial, and construct the Memorial;
            (8) acquire from willing sellers the land or interests in 
        land for the Memorial site by donation, purchase with donated 
        or appropriated funds, or exchange; and
            (9) administer the Memorial as a unit of the National Park 
        System in accordance with this Act and with the laws generally 
        applicable to units of the National Park System.

SEC. 6. ESTABLISHMENT OF NATIONAL MONUMENT.

    (a) Establishment.--There is established as a national monument in 
the State certain land administered by the Secretary of Agriculture in 
Los Angeles County comprising approximately ____ acres, as generally 
depicted on the map entitled ____, and dated ___, to be known as the 
``Saint Francis Dam Disaster National Memorial Monument''.
    (b) Purpose.--The purpose of the Monument is to conserve, protect, 
and enhance for the benefit and enjoyment of present and future 
generations the cultural, archaeological, historical, natural, 
wildlife, geological, ecological, watershed, educational, scenic, and 
recreational resources and values of the Monument.
    (c) Management.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary of the Interior shall manage 
        the Monument--
                    (A) in a manner that conserves, protects, and 
                enhances the resources of the Monument;
                    (B) protects, preserves, and enhances the Memorial; 
                and
                    (C) in accordance with--
                            (i) the Federal Land Policy and Management 
                        Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.);
                            (ii) this Act; and
                            (iii) any other applicable laws.
            (2) Uses.--
                    (A) In general.--The Secretary of the Interior 
                shall allow only such uses of the Monument that the 
                Secretary determines would further the purpose 
                described in subsection (b).
                    (B) Use of motorized vehicles.--
                            (i) In general.--Except as needed for 
                        administrative purposes or to respond to an 
                        emergency, the use of motorized vehicles in the 
                        Monument shall be permitted only on roads 
                        designated for use by motorized vehicles in the 
                        management plan.
                            (ii) New roads.--No additional roads shall 
                        be built within the Monument after the date of 
                        enactment of this Act unless the road is 
                        necessary for public safety or natural resource 
                        protection.
                    (C) Grazing.--The Secretary shall permit grazing 
                within the Monument, where established before the date 
                of enactment of this Act--
                            (i) subject to all applicable laws 
                        (including regulations) and Executive orders; 
                        and
                            (ii) consistent with the purpose described 
                        in subsection (b).
                    (D) Utility right-of-way upgrades.--Nothing in this 
                section precludes the Secretary from renewing or 
                authorizing the upgrading (including widening) of a 
                utility right-of-way in existence as of the date of 
                enactment of this Act through the Monument in a manner 
                that minimizes harm to the purpose of the Monument 
                described in subsection (b)--
                            (i) in accordance with--
                                    (I) the National Environmental 
                                Policy Act of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 4321 et 
                                seq.); and
                                    (II) any other applicable law; and
                            (ii) subject to such terms and conditions 
                        as the Secretary determines to be appropriate.
                    (E) Rights-of-way.--Subject to applicable law, the 
                Secretary of the Interior may issue rights-of-way for 
                watershed restoration projects and small-scale flood 
                prevention projects within the boundary of the Monument 
                if the right-of-way is consistent with the purpose of 
                the Monument described in subsection (b).
    (d) Management Plan.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 3 years after the date of 
        enactment of this Act, the Secretary of the Interior shall 
        develop a management plan for the Monument.
            (2) Consultation.--The management plan shall be developed 
        in consultation with--
                    (A) interested Federal agencies;
                    (B) State, tribal, and local governments; and
                    (C) the public.
            (3) Considerations.--In preparing and implementing the 
        management plan, the Secretary of the Interior shall--
                    (A) consider the recommendations of the Santa 
                Clarita Valley Historical Society on methods for 
                providing access to, and protection for the St. Francis 
                Dam Memorial site; and
                    (B) include a watershed health assessment to 
                identify opportunities for watershed restoration.
    (e) Incorporation of Acquired Land and Interests in Land.--Any land 
or interest in land that is within the boundary of the Monument 
designated by subsection (a) that is acquired by the United States 
shall--
            (1) become part of the Monument; and
            (2) be managed in accordance with--
                    (A) this Act; and
                    (B) any other applicable laws.
    (f) Transfer of Administrative Jurisdiction.--On the date of 
enactment of this Act, administrative jurisdiction over the 
approximately ___ acres of land generally depicted as ___ on the map 
entitled ___, and dated ___, shall--
            (1) be transferred from the Secretary of Agriculture to the 
        Secretary of the Interior;
            (2) become part of the Monument; and
            (3) be managed in accordance with--
                    (A) this Act; and
                    (B) any other applicable laws.

SEC. 7. DEFINITIONS.

    In this Act:
            (1) Memorial.--The term ``Memorial'' means the Saint 
        Francis Dam Disaster National Memorial established by section 
        3.
            (2) Monument.--The term ``Monument'' means the Saint 
        Francis Dam Disaster National Monument established by section 
        6.
            (3) State.--The term ``State'' means the State of 
        California.
                                 <all>
