
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 5059 Introduced in House (IH)]

113th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                H. R. 5059

   To direct the Secretary of Defense and the Secretary of Veterans 
  Affairs to provide for the conduct of annual evaluations of mental 
   health care and suicide prevention programs of the Department of 
Defense and the Department of Veterans Affairs, to review the terms or 
characterization of the discharge or separation of certain individuals 
from the Armed Forces, to require a pilot program on loan repayment for 
psychiatrists who agree to serve in the Veterans Health Administration 
     of the Department of Veterans Affairs, and for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                             July 10, 2014

   Mr. Walz (for himself, Mr. Miller of Florida, Ms. Duckworth, Mr. 
 Barber, Mr. Benishek, Mr. Braley of Iowa, Mr. Fattah, Mr. Hastings of 
 Florida, Mr. Johnson of Ohio, Ms. Kuster, Mr. McNerney, Mr. Murphy of 
Florida, Mr. Stivers, Mrs. Walorski, Mr. Fitzpatrick, Mr. Daines, Mrs. 
 Kirkpatrick, and Mr. Rooney) introduced the following bill; which was 
referred to the Committee on Veterans' Affairs, and in addition to the 
Committee on Armed Services, for a period to be subsequently determined 
 by the Speaker, in each case for consideration of such provisions as 
        fall within the jurisdiction of the committee concerned

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
   To direct the Secretary of Defense and the Secretary of Veterans 
  Affairs to provide for the conduct of annual evaluations of mental 
   health care and suicide prevention programs of the Department of 
Defense and the Department of Veterans Affairs, to review the terms or 
characterization of the discharge or separation of certain individuals 
from the Armed Forces, to require a pilot program on loan repayment for 
psychiatrists who agree to serve in the Veterans Health Administration 
     of the Department of Veterans Affairs, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Clay Hunt Suicide Prevention for 
American Veterans Act'' or the ``Clay Hunt SAV Act''.

SEC. 2. EVALUATIONS OF MENTAL HEALTH CARE AND SUICIDE PREVENTION 
              PROGRAMS OF DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS AFFAIRS AND DEPARTMENT 
              OF DEFENSE.

    (a) Evaluations.--
            (1) In general.--Not less frequently than once each year, 
        the Secretary concerned shall provide for the conduct of an 
        evaluation of the mental health care and suicide prevention 
        programs carried out under the laws administered by such 
        Secretary.
            (2) Elements.--Each evaluation conducted under paragraph 
        (1) shall--
                    (A) use metrics that are common among and useful 
                for practitioners in the field of mental health care 
                and suicide prevention;
                    (B) identify the most effective mental health care 
                and suicide prevention programs conducted by the 
                Secretary concerned, including such programs conducted 
                at a Center of Excellence;
                    (C) identify the cost-effectiveness of each 
                programs identified under subparagraph (B); and
                    (D) propose best practices for caring for 
                individuals who suffer from mental health disorders or 
                are at risk of suicide.
            (3) Third party.--Each evaluation conducted under paragraph 
        (1) shall be conducted by an independent third party 
        unaffiliated with the Department of Veterans Affairs and the 
        Department of Defense. Such third party shall submit to the 
        Secretary concerned each such evaluation as appropriate.
            (4) Submission.--The Secretary concerned shall annually 
        submit to the Committees on Armed Services and the Committees 
        on Veterans' Affairs of the House of Representatives and the 
        Senate a report that contains the most recent evaluation 
        submitted to the Secretary under paragraph (3).
    (b) Secretary Concerned Defined.--In this section, the term 
``Secretary concerned'' means--
            (1) the Secretary of Veterans Affairs with respect to 
        matters concerning the Department of Veterans Affairs; and
            (2) the Secretary of Defense with respect to matters 
        concerning the Department of Defense.

SEC. 3. REVIEW OF CHARACTERIZATION OR TERMS OF DISCHARGE FROM THE ARMED 
              FORCES OF INDIVIDUALS WITH MENTAL HEALTH DISORDERS 
              ALLEGED TO AFFECT TERMS OF DISCHARGE.

    (a) In General.--Section 1553(d) of title 10, United States Code, 
is amended by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
    ``(3)(A) In addition to the requirements of paragraph (1) and (2), 
in the case of a former member described in subparagraph (B), the Board 
shall--
            ``(i) review medical evidence of the Secretary of Veterans 
        Affairs or a civilian health care provider that is presented by 
        the former member; and
            ``(ii) review the case with a presumption of administrative 
        irregularity and place the burden on the Secretary concerned to 
        prove, by a preponderance of the evidence, that no error or 
        injustice occurred.
    ``(B) A former member described in this subparagraph is a former 
member described in paragraph (1) or a former member whose application 
for relief is based in whole or in part on matters relating to post-
traumatic stress disorder or traumatic brain injury as supporting 
rationale or as justification for priority consideration whose post-
traumatic stress disorder or traumatic brain injury is related to 
combat or military sexual trauma, as determined by the Secretary 
concerned.''.

SEC. 4. PUBLICATION OF INTERNET WEBSITE TO PROVIDE INFORMATION 
              REGARDING MENTAL HEALTH CARE SERVICES.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall publish an 
Internet website that serves as a centralized source to provide 
veterans with information regarding all of the mental health care 
services provided by the Secretary.
    (b) Elements.--The Internet website published under subsection (a) 
shall provide to veterans information regarding all of the mental 
health care services available in the Veteran Integrated Service 
Network that the veteran is seeking such services, including, with 
respect to each medical center and community-based outpatient center in 
the Veterans Integrated Service Network--
            (1) the name and contact information of each social work 
        office;
            (2) the name and contact information of each mental health 
        clinic;
            (3) a list of appropriate staff; and
            (4) any other information the Secretary determines 
        appropriate.
    (c) Updated Information.--The Secretary shall ensure that the 
information described in subsection (b) that is published on the 
Internet website under subsection (a) is updated not less than once 
every 90 days.
    (d) Outreach.--In carrying out this section, the Secretary shall 
ensure that the outreach conducted under section 1720F(i) of title 38, 
United States Code, includes information regarding the Internet website 
published under subsection (a).

SEC. 5. IMPROVEMENTS TO HEALTH CARE MATTERS.

    (a) Reserve Components and Department of Veterans Affairs.--The 
Secretary of Veterans Affairs and the Secretary of Defense, in 
consultation with the Chief of the National Guard Bureau, shall enter 
into formal strategic relationships between the Joint Forces 
Headquarters of each State regional commands of the reserve components 
and the Veterans Service Integrated Network, medical facilities of the 
Department of Veterans Affairs, and other local offices of the 
Department of Veterans Affairs located in the State with respect to 
facilitating--
            (1) the mental health referrals of members of the reserve 
        components who have a service-connected disability and are 
        being discharged or released from the Armed Forces;
            (2) timely behavioral health services for such members;
            (3) communication when such members are at risk for 
        behavioral health reasons; and
            (4) the transfer of documentation for line of duty and 
        fitness for duty determinations.
    (b) GAO Report on Transition of Care.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than April 1, 2015, the 
        Comptroller General of the United States shall submit to the 
        congressional defense committees (as defined in section 
        101(a)(16) of title 10, United States Code) and the Committees 
        on Veterans' Affairs of the House of Representatives and the 
        Senate a report that assesses the transition of care for post-
        traumatic stress disorder or traumatic brain injury.
            (2) Matters included.--The report under paragraph (1) shall 
        include the following:
                    (A) The programs, policies, and regulations that 
                affect the transition of care, particularly with 
                respect to individuals who are taking or have been 
                prescribed antidepressants, stimulants, antipsychotics, 
                mood stabilizers, anxiolytic, depressants, or 
                hallucinogens.
                    (B) Upon transitioning to care furnished by the 
                Secretary of Veterans Affairs, the extent to which the 
                pharmaceutical treatment plan of an individual changes, 
                and the factors determining such changes.
                    (C) The extent to which the Secretary of Defense 
                and the Secretary of Veterans Affairs have worked 
                together to identify and apply best pharmaceutical 
                treatment practices.
                    (D) A description of the off-formulary waiver 
                process of the Secretary of Veterans Affairs, and the 
                extent to which the process is applied efficiently at 
                the treatment level.
                    (E) The benefits and challenges of combining the 
                formularies across the Department of Defense and the 
                Department of Veterans Affairs.
                    (F) Any other issues that the Comptroller General 
                determines appropriate.
            (3) Transition of care defined.--In this subsection, the 
        term ``transition of care'' means the transition of an 
        individual from receiving treatment furnished by the Secretary 
        of Defense to treatment furnished by the Secretary of Veterans 
        Affairs.

SEC. 6. PILOT PROGRAM FOR REPAYMENT OF EDUCATIONAL LOANS FOR CERTAIN 
              PSYCHIATRISTS OF VETERANS HEALTH ADMINISTRATION.

    (a) Establishment.--The Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall carry 
out a pilot program to repay loans of individuals described in 
subsection (b) that--
            (1) were used by such individuals to finance education 
        relating to psychiatric medicine, including education leading 
        to--
                    (A) an undergraduate degree;
                    (B) a degree of doctor of medicine; or
                    (C) a degree of doctor of osteopathy; and
            (2) were obtained from any of the following:
                    (A) A governmental entity.
                    (B) A private financial institution.
                    (C) A school.
                    (D) Any other authorized entity as determined by 
                the Secretary.
    (b) Eligible Individuals.--
            (1) In general.--Subject to paragraph (2), an individual 
        eligible for participation in the pilot program is an 
        individual who--
                    (A) either--
                            (i) is licensed or eligible for licensure 
                        to practice psychiatric medicine in the 
                        Veterans Health Administration of the 
                        Department of Veterans Affairs; or
                            (ii) is enrolled in the final year of a 
                        residency program leading to a specialty 
                        qualification in psychiatric medicine that is 
                        approved by the Accreditation Council for 
                        Graduate Medical Education; and
                    (B) demonstrates a commitment to a long-term career 
                as a psychiatrist in the Veterans Health 
                Administration, as determined by the Secretary.
            (2) Prohibition on simultaneous eligibility.--An individual 
        who is participating in any other program of the Federal 
        Government that repays the educational loans of the individual 
        is not eligible to participate in the pilot program.
    (c) Selection.--The Secretary shall select not less than 10 
individuals described in subsection (b) to participate in the pilot 
program for each year in which the Secretary carries out the pilot 
program.
    (d) Period of Obligated Service.--The Secretary shall enter into an 
agreement with each individual selected under subsection (c) in which 
such individual agrees to serve a period of obligated service for the 
Veterans Health Administration in the field of psychiatric medicine, as 
determined by the Secretary.
    (e) Loan Repayments.--
            (1) Amounts.--Subject to paragraph (2), a loan repayment 
        under this section may consist of payment of the principal, 
        interest, and related expenses of a loan obtained by an 
        individual who is participating in the pilot program for all 
        educational expenses (including tuition, fees, books, and 
        laboratory expenses) of such individual relating to education 
        described in subsection (a)(1).
            (2) Limit.--For each year of obligated service that an 
        individual who is participating in the pilot program agrees to 
        serve under subsection (d), the Secretary may pay not more than 
        $60,000 in loan repayment on behalf of such individual.
    (f) Breach.--
            (1) Liability.--An individual who participates in the pilot 
        program and fails to satisfy the period of obligated service 
        under subsection (d) shall be liable to the United States, in 
        lieu of such obligated service, for the amount that has been 
        paid or is payable to or on behalf of the individual under the 
        pilot program, reduced by the proportion that the number of 
        days served for completion of the period of obligated service 
        bears to the total number of days in the period of obligated 
        service of such individual.
            (2) Repayment period.--Any amount of damages that the 
        United States is entitled to recover under this subsection 
        shall be paid to the United States not later than one year 
        after the date of the breach of the agreement.
    (g) Report.--
            (1) Initial report.--Not later than two years after the 
        date on which the pilot program under subsection (a) commences, 
        the Secretary shall submit to the Committee on Veterans' 
        Affairs of the Senate and the Committee on Veterans' Affairs of 
        the House of Representatives a report on the pilot program.
            (2) Elements.--The report required by paragraph (1) shall 
        include the following:
                    (A) The number of individuals who participated in 
                the pilot program.
                    (B) The locations in which such individuals were 
                employed by the Department, including how many such 
                locations were rural or urban locations.
                    (C) An assessment of the quality of the work 
                performed by such individuals in the course of such 
                employment.
                    (D) The number of psychiatrists the Secretary 
                determines is needed by the Department in the future.
            (3) Final report.--Not later than 90 days after the date on 
        which the pilot program terminates under subsection (i), the 
        Secretary shall submit to the Committee on Veterans' Affairs of 
        the Senate and the Committee on Veterans' Affairs of the House 
        of Representatives an update to the report submitted under 
        paragraph (1).
    (h) Regulations.--The Secretary shall prescribe regulations to 
carry out this section, including standards for qualified loans and 
authorized payees and other terms and conditions for the making of loan 
repayments.
    (i) Termination.--The authority to carry out the pilot program 
shall expire on the date that is three years after the date on which 
the Secretary commences the pilot program.

SEC. 7. PUBLIC-PRIVATE CONTRIBUTIONS FOR ADDITIONAL EDUCATIONAL 
              ASSISTANCE FOR GRADUATE DEGREES RELATING TO MENTAL 
              HEALTH.

    (a) In General.--Section 3317 of title 38, United States Code, is 
amended by adding at the end the following new subsection:
    ``(f) Graduate Degree in Mental Health.--(1) As part of the Yellow 
Ribbon G.I. Education Enhancement Program carried out under this 
section, the Secretary shall carry out a program under which the 
Secretary and a college or university that enters into an agreement 
described in subsection (a) may make contributions pursuant to this 
subsection with respect to the full cost of established charges of a 
veteran described in paragraph (2).
    ``(2) A veteran described in this paragraph is a veteran who--
            ``(A) is eligible for the program under subsection (a);
            ``(B) holds a bachelor's degree;
            ``(C) is pursuing an advanced degree in mental health at an 
        institution of higher learning that participates in the program 
        under subsection (a); and
            ``(D) is pursuing such a degree with the intention of 
        seeking employment as a mental health professional in the 
        Department of Veterans Affairs.
    ``(3) In determining the intention of a veteran under paragraph 
(2)(D), the Secretary may not require the veteran to enter into any 
binding agreement with respect to such intention.
    ``(4) In determining the amount of matching contributions pursuant 
to subsection (d)(1) for assistance provided under paragraph (1), the 
Secretary shall--
            ``(A) substitute `66 percent' for `up to 50 percent'; and
            ``(B) substitute `34 percent' for `an equal percentage'.
    ``(5) In accordance with section 7406 of this title, the Secretary 
may establish residencies and internships at medical facilities of the 
Department for veterans participating in the program under subsection 
(a).
    ``(6) If the Secretary employs a veteran who participates in the 
program under subsection (a) as a mental health professional following 
such participation, to the maximum extent practicable, the Secretary 
shall ensure that--
            ``(A) the veteran is employed in a rural area or an area 
        that the Secretary determines is in greatest need of mental 
        health professionals; and
            ``(B) the veteran is employed in a position that directly 
        relates to the treatment of veterans rather than a research 
        position.
    ``(7) In this subsection, the term `advanced degree in mental 
health' means a master's degree, doctoral degree, or other graduate or 
professional degree that the Secretary determines would lead an 
individual to be employed as any of the following positions:
            ``(A) Psychiatrist.
            ``(B) Psychologist.
            ``(C) Mental health nurse.
            ``(D) Nurse assistant.
            ``(E) Physician assistant.
            ``(F) Pharmacist.
            ``(G) Social worker.
            ``(H) Licensed professional mental health counselor.
            ``(I) Licensed marriage and family therapist.
            ``(J) Addiction therapist.
            ``(K) Occupational therapist.
            ``(L) Recreational therapist.
            ``(M) Vocational rehabilitation therapist.
            ``(N) Health science specialist.
            ``(O) Health technician.
            ``(P) Any other position the Secretary determines 
        appropriate.''.
    (b) Prohibition on Transfer of Eligibility.--Section 3319(h) of 
such title is amended by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
            ``(8) Prohibition on certain contributions.--Entitlement 
        transferred under this section may not include eligibility for 
        contributions under section 3317(f) of this title.''.
    (c) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this section shall 
apply with respect to a quarter, semester, or term that begins on or 
after July 1, 2015.

SEC. 8. REVIEW OF STAFFING REQUIREMENTS FOR STATE DIRECTORS OF 
              PSYCHOLOGICAL HEALTH.

    Not later than 18 months after the date of the enactment of this 
Act, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the Committees on Armed 
Services and the Committees on Veterans' Affairs of the House of 
Representatives and the Senate a zero-based review, conducted in 
coordination with the Chief of the National Guard Bureau, of the 
staffing requirements for individual State National Guard Commands with 
respect to Directors of Psychological Health.

SEC. 9. PILOT PROGRAM ON COMMUNITY OUTREACH.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall establish 
a pilot program to assist veterans transitioning from serving on active 
duty and to improve the access of veterans to mental health services.
    (b) Locations.--The Secretary shall carry out the pilot program 
under subsection (a) at not less than five Veterans Integrated Service 
Networks that have a large population of veterans who--
            (1) served in the reserve components of the Armed Forces; 
        or
            (2) are transitioning into communities with an established 
        population of veterans after having recently separated from the 
        Armed Forces.
    (c) Functions.--The pilot program at each Veterans Integrated 
Service Network described in subsection (b) shall include the 
following:
            (1) A community oriented veteran peer support network, 
        carried out in partnership with an appropriate entity with 
        experience in peer support programs, that--
                    (A) establishes peer support training guidelines;
                    (B) develops a network of veteran peer support 
                counselors to meet the demands of the communities in 
                the Veterans Integrated Service Network;
                    (C) conducts training of veteran peer support 
                counselors;
                    (D) with respect to each medical center in such 
                Veterans Integrated Service Network, has--
                            (i) a designated peer support specialist 
                        who acts as a liaison to the community oriented 
                        veteran peer network; and
                            (ii) a certified mental health professional 
                        designated as the community oriented veteran 
                        peer network mentor; and
                    (E) is readily available to veterans, including 
                pursuant to the Veterans Integrated Service Network 
                cooperating and working with State and local 
                governments and appropriate entities.
            (2) A community outreach team for each medical center in 
        such Veterans Integrated Service Network that--
                    (A) assists veterans transitioning into 
                communities;
                    (B) establishes a veteran transition advisory group 
                to facilitate outreach activities;
                    (C) includes the participation of appropriate 
                community organizations, State and local governments, 
                colleges and universities, and organizations that 
                provide legal aid or advice; and
                    (D) coordinates with the Veterans Integrated 
                Service Network regarding the Veterans Integrated 
                Service Network carrying out an annual mental health 
                summit to assess the status of veteran mental health 
                care in the community and to develop new or innovative 
                means to provide mental health services to veterans.
    (d) Reports.--
            (1) Initial report.--Not later than 18 months after the 
        date on which the pilot program under subsection (a) commences, 
        the Secretary shall submit to the Committee on Veterans' 
        Affairs of the Senate and the Committee on Veterans' Affairs of 
        the House of Representatives a report on the pilot program. 
        With respect to each Veterans Integrated Service Network 
        described in subsection (b), the report shall include--
                    (A) a full description of the peer support model 
                implemented under the pilot program, participation 
                data, and data pertaining to past and current mental 
                health related hospitalizations and fatalities;
                    (B) recommendations on implementing peer support 
                networks throughout the Department;
                    (C) whether the mental health resources made 
                available under the pilot program for members of the 
                reserve components of the Armed Forces is effective; 
                and
                    (D) a full description of the activities and 
                effectiveness of community outreach coordinating teams 
                under the pilot program, including partnerships that 
                have been established with appropriate entities.
            (2) Final report.--Not later than 90 days after the date on 
        which the pilot program terminates under subsection (e), the 
        Secretary shall submit to the Committee on Veterans' Affairs of 
        the Senate and the Committee on Veterans' Affairs of the House 
        of Representatives an update to the report submitted under 
        paragraph (1).
    (e) Termination.--The authority of the Secretary to carry out the 
pilot program under subsection (a) shall terminate on the date that is 
three years after the date on which the pilot program commences.
                                 <all>
