
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H. Res. 641 Engrossed in House (EH)]

H. Res. 641

                In the House of Representatives, U. S.,

                                                         June 25, 2014.
    Resolved, That at any time after adoption of this resolution the Speaker 
may, pursuant to clause 2(b) of rule XVIII, declare the House resolved into the 
Committee of the Whole House on the state of the Union for consideration of the 
bill (H.R. 4899) to lower gasoline prices for the American family by increasing 
domestic onshore and offshore energy exploration and production, to streamline 
and improve onshore and offshore energy permitting and administration, and for 
other purposes. The first reading of the bill shall be dispensed with. All 
points of order against consideration of the bill are waived. General debate 
shall be confined to the bill and shall not exceed one hour equally divided and 
controlled by the chair and ranking minority member of the Committee on Natural 
Resources. After general debate the bill shall be considered for amendment under 
the five-minute rule. It shall be in order to consider as an original bill for 
the purpose of amendment under the five-minute rule an amendment in the nature 
of a substitute consisting of the text of Rules Committee Print 113-50. That 
amendment in the nature of a substitute shall be considered as read. All points 
of order against that amendment in the nature of a substitute are waived. No 
amendment to that amendment in the nature of a substitute shall be in order 
except those printed in the report of the Committee on Rules accompanying this 
resolution. Each such amendment may be offered only in the order printed in the 
report, may be offered only by a Member designated in the report, shall be 
considered as read, shall be debatable for the time specified in the report 
equally divided and controlled by the proponent and an opponent, shall not be 
subject to amendment, and shall not be subject to a demand for division of the 
question in the House or in the Committee of the Whole. All points of order 
against such amendments are waived. At the conclusion of consideration of the 
bill for amendment the Committee shall rise and report the bill to the House 
with such amendments as may have been adopted. Any Member may demand a separate 
vote in the House on any amendment adopted in the Committee of the Whole to the 
bill or to the amendment in the nature of a substitute made in order as original 
text. The previous question shall be considered as ordered on the bill and 
amendments thereto to final passage without intervening motion except one motion 
to recommit with or without instructions.
    Sec. 2.  (a) At any time after adoption of this resolution the Speaker may, 
pursuant to clause 2(b) of rule XVIII, declare the House resolved into the 
Committee of the Whole House on the state of the Union for consideration of the 
bill (H.R. 4923) making appropriations for energy and water development and 
related agencies for the fiscal year ending September 30, 2015, and for other 
purposes. The first reading of the bill shall be dispensed with. All points of 
order against consideration of the bill are waived. General debate shall be 
confined to the bill and shall not exceed one hour equally divided and 
controlled by the chair and ranking minority member of the Committee on 
Appropriations. After general debate the bill shall be considered for amendment 
under the five-minute rule. Points of order against provisions in the bill for 
failure to comply with clause 2 of rule XXI are waived.
     (b) During consideration of the bill for amendment--
            (1) each amendment, other than amendments provided for in paragraph 
        (2), shall be debatable for 10 minutes equally divided and controlled by 
        the proponent and an opponent and shall not be subject to amendment 
        except as provided in paragraph (2);
            (2) no pro forma amendment shall be in order except that the chair 
        and ranking minority member of the Committee on Appropriations or their 
        respective designees may offer up to 10 pro forma amendments each at any 
        point for the purpose of debate; and
            (3) the chair of the Committee of the Whole may accord priority in 
        recognition on the basis of whether the Member offering an amendment has 
        caused it to be printed in the portion of the Congressional Record 
        designated for that purpose in clause 8 of rule XVIII. Amendments so 
        printed shall be considered as read.
    (c) When the committee rises and reports the bill back to the House with a 
recommendation that the bill do pass, the previous question shall be considered 
as ordered on the bill and amendments thereto to final passage without 
intervening motion except one motion to recommit with or without instructions.
    Sec. 3.  On any legislative day during the period from June 27, 2014, 
through July 7, 2014--
     (a) the Journal of the proceedings of the previous day shall be considered 
as approved; and
    (b) the Chair may at any time declare the House adjourned to meet at a date 
and time, within the limits of clause 4, section 5, article I of the 
Constitution, to be announced by the Chair in declaring the adjournment.
    Sec. 4.  The Speaker may appoint Members to perform the duties of the Chair 
for the duration of the period addressed by section 3 of this resolution as 
though under clause 8(a) of rule I.
    Sec. 5.  It shall be in order without intervention of any point of order to 
consider concurrent resolutions providing for adjournment during the month of 
July.
    Sec. 6.  The Committee on Appropriations may, at any time before 5 p.m. on 
Thursday, July 3, 2014, file privileged reports to accompany measures making 
appropriations for the fiscal year ending September 30, 2015.
            Attest:

                                                                          Clerk.
