
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[S. 693 Reported in Senate (RS)]

                                                       Calendar No. 132
113th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                 S. 693

                          [Report No. 113-75]

     To amend the Reclamation Wastewater and Groundwater Study and 
     Facilities Act to authorize the Secretary of the Interior to 
participate in the City of Hermiston, Oregon, water recycling and reuse 
                    project, and for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                             April 10, 2013

   Mr. Wyden introduced the following bill; which was read twice and 
       referred to the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources

                             July 15, 2013

                Reported by Mr. Wyden, with an amendment
                  [Insert the part printed in italic]

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
     To amend the Reclamation Wastewater and Groundwater Study and 
     Facilities Act to authorize the Secretary of the Interior to 
participate in the City of Hermiston, Oregon, water recycling and reuse 
                    project, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. PROJECT AUTHORIZATION.

    (a) In General.--The Reclamation Wastewater and Groundwater Study 
and Facilities Act (Public Law 102-575, title XVI; 43 U.S.C. 390h et 
seq.) is amended by inserting after section 1656 the following:

``SEC. 1657. CITY OF HERMISTON, OREGON, WATER RECYCLING AND REUSE 
              PROJECT.

    ``(a) Authorization.--The Secretary, in cooperation with the City 
of Hermiston, Oregon, is authorized to participate in the design, 
planning, and construction of permanent facilities to reclaim and reuse 
water in the City of Hermiston, Oregon.
    ``(b) Cost Share.--The Federal share of the costs of the project 
described in subsection (a) shall not exceed 25 percent of the total 
cost.
    ``(c) Limitation.--The Secretary shall not provide funds for the 
operation and maintenance of the project described in subsection 
(a).''.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections in section 2 of the 
Reclamation Projects Authorization and Adjustment Act of 1992 is 
amended by inserting after the item relating to section 1656 the 
following:

``Sec. 1657. City of Hermiston, Oregon, water recycling and reuse 
                            project.''.

SEC. 2. DEAUTHORIZATION OF WILLOW LAKE NATURAL TREATMENT SYSTEM 
              PROJECT, OREGON.

    (a) In General.--Section 1634 of the Reclamation Projects 
Authorization and Adjustment Act of 1992 (43 U.S.C. 390h-16) is 
repealed.
    (b) Conforming Amendment.--The table of contents of title XVI of 
the Reclamation Projects Authorization and Adjustment Act of 1992 
(Public Law 102-575; 106 Stat. 4602) is amended by striking the item 
relating to section 1634.
                                                       Calendar No. 132

113th CONGRESS

  1st Session

                                 S. 693

                          [Report No. 113-75]

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL

     To amend the Reclamation Wastewater and Groundwater Study and 
     Facilities Act to authorize the Secretary of the Interior to 
participate in the City of Hermiston, Oregon, water recycling and reuse 
                    project, and for other purposes.

_______________________________________________________________________

                             July 15, 2013

                       Reported with an amendment
