
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 3936 Introduced in House (IH)]

113th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                H. R. 3936

To provide for the extension of certain unemployment benefits, and for 
                            other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                            January 28, 2014

  Mr. Van Hollen (for himself and Mr. Levin) introduced the following 
  bill; which was referred to the Committee on Ways and Means, and in 
 addition to the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, for a 
 period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
consideration of such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the 
                          committee concerned

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
To provide for the extension of certain unemployment benefits, and for 
                            other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Emergency Unemployment Compensation 
Extension Act of 2014''.

SEC. 2. FINDINGS.

    Congress finds the following:
            (1) Emergency unemployment compensation benefits expired at 
        the end of 2013.
            (2) 1.3 million unemployed workers and their families 
        immediately lost access to benefits. Thousands more unemployed 
        workers are losing benefits each week.
            (3) Excluding title IV, which focuses on nutrition, the 
        Agricultural Act of 2014, which has passed the House, generates 
        savings to offset the cost of this Act. If savings are not 
        sufficient, Congress will direct offsets from other legislation 
        to fully offset this Act.
            (4) Consistent with the statutory pay-as-you-go scorecard 
        and the spirit of House rules that allow savings from one bill 
        to be counted in evaluating language in another paired bill, 
        the savings generated by the Agricultural Act of 2014 (not 
        including title IV) provide an offset for the benefits provided 
        in this Act.

SEC. 3. EXTENSION OF EMERGENCY UNEMPLOYMENT COMPENSATION PROGRAM.

    (a) Extension.--Section 4007(a)(2) of the Supplemental 
Appropriations Act, 2008 (Public Law 110-252; 26 U.S.C. 3304 note) is 
amended by striking ``January 1, 2014'' and inserting ``July 1, 2014''.
    (b) Funding.--Section 4004(e)(1) of the Supplemental Appropriations 
Act, 2008 (Public Law 110-252; 26 U.S.C. 3304 note) is amended--
            (1) in subparagraph (I), by striking ``and'' at the end;
            (2) in subparagraph (J), by inserting ``and'' at the end; 
        and
            (3) by inserting after subparagraph (J) the following:
                    ``(K) the amendments made by section 2(a) of the 
                Emergency Unemployment Compensation Extension Act of 
                2014;''.
    (c) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this section shall take 
effect as if included in the enactment of the American Taxpayer Relief 
Act of 2012 (Public Law 112-240).

SEC. 4. TEMPORARY EXTENSION OF EXTENDED BENEFIT PROVISIONS.

    (a) In General.--Section 2005 of the Assistance for Unemployed 
Workers and Struggling Families Act, as contained in Public Law 111-5 
(26 U.S.C. 3304 note), is amended--
            (1) by striking ``December 31, 2013'' each place it appears 
        and inserting ``June 30, 2014''; and
            (2) in subsection (c), by striking ``June 30, 2014'' and 
        inserting ``December 31, 2014''.
    (b) Extension of Matching for States With No Waiting Week.--Section 
5 of the Unemployment Compensation Extension Act of 2008 (Public Law 
110-449; 26 U.S.C. 3304 note) is amended by striking ``June 30, 2014'' 
and inserting ``December 31, 2014''.
    (c) Extension of Modification of Indicators Under the Extended 
Benefit Program.--Section 203 of the Federal-State Extended 
Unemployment Compensation Act of 1970 (26 U.S.C. 3304 note) is 
amended--
            (1) in subsection (d), by striking ``December 31, 2013'' 
        and inserting ``June 30, 2014''; and
            (2) in subsection (f)(2), by striking ``December 31, 2013'' 
        and inserting ``June 30, 2014''.
    (d) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this section shall take 
effect as if included in the enactment of the American Taxpayer Relief 
Act of 2012 (Public Law 112-240).

SEC. 5. EXTENSION OF FUNDING FOR REEMPLOYMENT SERVICES AND REEMPLOYMENT 
              AND ELIGIBILITY ASSESSMENT ACTIVITIES.

    (a) In General.--Section 4004(c)(2)(A) of the Supplemental 
Appropriations Act, 2008 (Public Law 110-252; 26 U.S.C. 3304 note) is 
amended by striking ``through fiscal year 2014'' and inserting 
``through the second quarter of 2015''.
    (b) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this section shall take 
effect as if included in the enactment of the American Taxpayer Relief 
Act of 2012 (Public Law 112-240).

SEC. 6. ADDITIONAL EXTENDED UNEMPLOYMENT BENEFITS UNDER THE RAILROAD 
              UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE ACT.

    (a) Extension.--Section 2(c)(2)(D)(iii) of the Railroad 
Unemployment Insurance Act (45 U.S.C. 352(c)(2)(D)(iii)) is amended--
            (1) by striking ``June 30, 2013'' and inserting ``December 
        31, 2013''; and
            (2) by striking ``December 31, 2013'' and inserting ``June 
        30, 2014''.
    (b) Clarification on Authority To Use Funds.--Funds appropriated 
under either the first or second sentence of clause (iv) of section 
2(c)(2)(D) of the Railroad Unemployment Insurance Act shall be 
available to cover the cost of additional extended unemployment 
benefits provided under such section 2(c)(2)(D) by reason of the 
amendments made by subsection (a) as well as to cover the cost of such 
benefits provided under such section 2(c)(2)(D), as in effect on the 
day before the date of enactment of this Act.
    (c) Funding for Administration.--Out of any funds in the Treasury 
not otherwise appropriated, there are appropriated to the Railroad 
Retirement Board $62,500 for administrative expenses associated with 
the payment of additional extended unemployment benefits provided under 
section 2(c)(2)(D) of the Railroad Unemployment Insurance Act by reason 
of the amendments made by subsection (a), to remain available until 
expended.

SEC. 7. FLEXIBILITY FOR UNEMPLOYMENT PROGRAM AGREEMENTS.

    (a) Flexibility.--
            (1) In general.--Subsection (g) of section 4001 of the 
        Supplemental Appropriations Act, 2008 (Public Law 110-252; 26 
        U.S.C. 3304 note) shall not apply with respect to a State that 
        has enacted a law before December 1, 2013, that, upon taking 
        effect, would violate such subsection.
            (2) Effective date.--Paragraph (1) is effective with 
        respect to weeks of unemployment beginning on or after December 
        29, 2013.
    (b) Permitting a Subsequent Agreement.--Nothing in such title IV 
shall preclude a State whose agreement under such title was terminated 
from entering into a subsequent agreement under such title on or after 
the date of the enactment of this Act if the State, taking into account 
the application of subsection (a), would otherwise meet the 
requirements for an agreement under such title.
                                 <all>
