
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 2080 Introduced in House (IH)]

113th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                H. R. 2080

 To provide for the admission to the United States of certain Tibetans.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                              May 21, 2013

Mr. Sensenbrenner introduced the following bill; which was referred to 
                     the Committee on the Judiciary

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
 To provide for the admission to the United States of certain Tibetans.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Tibetan Refugee Assistance Act of 
2013''.

SEC. 2. TRANSITION FOR DISPLACED TIBETANS.

    (a) In General.--Notwithstanding the numerical limitations 
specified in sections 201 and 202 of the Immigration and Nationality 
Act (8 U.S.C. 1151 and 1152), there shall be made available to 
qualified displaced Tibetans described in subsection (b) of this 
section 3,000 immigrant visas in the 3-fiscal-year period beginning 
with fiscal year 2014.
    (b) Qualified Displaced Tibetan Described.--
            (1) In general.--An individual is a qualified displaced 
        Tibetan if such individual is an individual who--
                    (A) is a native of Tibet; and
                    (B) since before the date of the enactment of this 
                Act, has been continuously residing in India or Nepal.
            (2) Native of tibet described.--For purposes of 
        subparagraph (A) of paragraph (1), an individual shall be 
        considered to be a native of Tibet if such individual was born 
        in Tibet or is the son, daughter, grandson, or granddaughter of 
        an individual born in Tibet.
    (c) Distribution of Visa Numbers.--The Secretary of State shall 
ensure that immigrant visas provided under subsection (a) are made 
available to qualified displaced Tibetans described in subsection (b) 
(or described in subsection (d) as the spouse or child of such a 
qualified displaced Tibetan) in an equitable manner, giving preference 
to those qualified displaced Tibetans who are not resettled in India or 
Nepal or who are most likely to be resettled successfully in the United 
States.
    (d) Derivative Status for Spouses and Children.--A spouse or child 
(as defined in subparagraphs (A), (B), (C), (D), or (E) of section 
101(b)(1) of the Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1101(b)(1))) 
shall, if not otherwise entitled to an immigrant status and the 
immediate issuance of a visa under this section, be entitled to the 
same status, and the same order of consideration, provided under this 
section, if accompanying, or following to join, the spouse or parent of 
such spouse or child.
                                 <all>
