
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 4660 Placed on Calendar Senate (PCS)]

                                                       Calendar No. 428
113th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                H. R. 4660


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                              June 2, 2014

                                Received

                             June 10, 2014

                 Read twice and placed on the calendar

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 AN ACT


 
  Making appropriations for the Departments of Commerce and Justice, 
Science, and Related Agencies for the fiscal year ending September 30, 
                     2015, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled, That the following sums 
are appropriated, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise 
appropriated, for the fiscal year ending September 30, 2015, and for 
other purposes, namely:

                                TITLE I

                         DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE

                   International Trade Administration

                     operations and administration

    For necessary expenses for international trade activities of the 
Department of Commerce provided for by law, and for engaging in trade 
promotional activities abroad, including expenses of grants and 
cooperative agreements for the purpose of promoting exports of United 
States firms, without regard to sections 3702 and 3703 of title 44, 
United States Code; full medical coverage for dependent members of 
immediate families of employees stationed overseas and employees 
temporarily posted overseas; travel and transportation of employees of 
the International Trade Administration between two points abroad, 
without regard to section 40118 of title 49, United States Code; 
employment of citizens of the United States and aliens by contract for 
services; rental of space abroad for periods not exceeding 10 years, 
and expenses of alteration, repair, or improvement; purchase or 
construction of temporary demountable exhibition structures for use 
abroad; payment of tort claims, in the manner authorized in the first 
paragraph of section 2672 of title 28, United States Code, when such 
claims arise in foreign countries; not to exceed $294,300 for official 
representation expenses abroad; purchase of passenger motor vehicles 
for official use abroad, not to exceed $45,000 per vehicle; obtaining 
insurance on official motor vehicles; and rental of tie lines, 
$473,000,000 (reduced by $3,000,000) (reduced by $1), to remain 
available until September 30, 2016, of which $10,000,000 is to be 
derived from fees to be retained and used by the International Trade 
Administration, notwithstanding section 3302 of title 31, United States 
Code: Provided, That, of amounts provided under this heading, not less 
than $16,400,000 shall be for China antidumping and countervailing duty 
enforcement and compliance activities: Provided further, That the 
provisions of the first sentence of section 105(f) and all of section 
108(c) of the Mutual Educational and Cultural Exchange Act of 1961 (22 
U.S.C. 2455(f) and 2458(c)) shall apply in carrying out these 
activities; and that for the purpose of this Act, contributions under 
the provisions of the Mutual Educational and Cultural Exchange Act of 
1961 shall include payment for assessments for services provided as 
part of these activities.

                    Bureau of Industry and Security

                     operations and administration

    For necessary expenses for export administration and national 
security activities of the Department of Commerce, including costs 
associated with the performance of export administration field 
activities both domestically and abroad; full medical coverage for 
dependent members of immediate families of employees stationed 
overseas; employment of citizens of the United States and aliens by 
contract for services abroad; payment of tort claims, in the manner 
authorized in the first paragraph of section 2672 of title 28, United 
States Code, when such claims arise in foreign countries; not to exceed 
$13,500 for official representation expenses abroad; awards of 
compensation to informers under the Export Administration Act of 1979, 
and as authorized by section 1(b) of the Act of June 15, 1917 (40 Stat. 
223; 22 U.S.C. 401(b)); and purchase of passenger motor vehicles for 
official use and motor vehicles for law enforcement use with special 
requirement vehicles eligible for purchase without regard to any price 
limitation otherwise established by law, $103,500,000 (increased by $1) 
(reduced by $5,000,000) (increased by $5,000,000), to remain available 
until expended: Provided, That the provisions of the first sentence of 
section 105(f) and all of section 108(c) of the Mutual Educational and 
Cultural Exchange Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 2455(f) and 2458(c)) shall 
apply in carrying out these activities: Provided further, That payments 
and contributions collected and accepted for materials or services 
provided as part of such activities may be retained for use in covering 
the cost of such activities, and for providing information to the 
public with respect to the export administration and national security 
activities of the Department of Commerce and other export control 
programs of the United States and other governments.

                  Economic Development Administration

                economic development assistance programs

    For grants for economic development assistance as provided by the 
Public Works and Economic Development Act of 1965, for trade adjustment 
assistance, for the cost of loan guarantees authorized by section 26 of 
the Stevenson-Wydler Technology Innovation Act of 1980 (15 U.S.C. 
3721), and for grants, $210,500,000, to remain available until 
expended; of which $5,000,000 shall be for projects to facilitate the 
relocation, to the United States, of a source of employment located 
outside the United States; and of which $5,000,000 shall be for loan 
guarantees under such section 26: Provided, That the costs for loan 
guarantees, including the cost of modifying such loans, shall be as 
defined in section 502 of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974: 
Provided further, That these funds for loan guarantees under such 
section 26 are available to subsidize total loan principal, any part of 
which is to be guaranteed, not to exceed $70,000,000.

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of administering the economic development 
assistance programs as provided for by law, $37,000,000: Provided, That 
these funds may be used to monitor projects approved pursuant to title 
I of the Public Works Employment Act of 1976, title II of the Trade Act 
of 1974, and the Community Emergency Drought Relief Act of 1977.

                  Minority Business Development Agency

                     minority business development

    For necessary expenses of the Department of Commerce in fostering, 
promoting, and developing minority business enterprise, including 
expenses of grants, contracts, and other agreements with public or 
private organizations, $30,000,000.

                   Economic and Statistical Analysis

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses, as authorized by law, of economic and 
statistical analysis programs of the Department of Commerce, 
$99,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 2016.

                          Bureau of the Census

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses for collecting, compiling, analyzing, 
preparing and publishing statistics, provided for by law, $248,000,000: 
Provided, That, from amounts provided herein, funds may be used for 
promotion, outreach, and marketing activities: Provided further, That 
the Bureau of the Census shall collect data for the Annual Social and 
Economic Supplement to the Current Population Survey using the same 
health insurance questions included in previous years, prior to the 
revised questions implemented in the Current Population Survey 
beginning in February 2014.

                     periodic censuses and programs

    For necessary expenses for collecting, compiling, analyzing, 
preparing and publishing statistics for periodic censuses and programs 
provided for by law, $858,500,000 (reduced by $110,000,000) (reduced by 
$4,000,000) (reduced by $4,000,000) (reduced by $3,000,000) (reduced by 
$12,000,000), to remain available until September 30, 2016: Provided, 
That, from amounts provided herein, funds may be used for promotion, 
outreach, and marketing activities: Provided further, That within the 
amounts appropriated, $1,551,000 shall be transferred to the ``Office 
of Inspector General'' account for activities associated with carrying 
out investigations and audits related to the Bureau of the Census.

       National Telecommunications and Information Administration

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses, as provided for by law, of the National 
Telecommunications and Information Administration (NTIA), $36,700,000, 
to remain available until September 30, 2016: Provided, That, 
notwithstanding 31 U.S.C. 1535(d), the Secretary of Commerce shall 
charge Federal agencies for costs incurred in spectrum management, 
analysis, operations, and related services, and such fees shall be 
retained and used as offsetting collections for costs of such spectrum 
services, to remain available until expended: Provided further, That 
the Secretary of Commerce is authorized to retain and use as offsetting 
collections all funds transferred, or previously transferred, from 
other Government agencies for all costs incurred in telecommunications 
research, engineering, and related activities by the Institute for 
Telecommunication Sciences of NTIA, in furtherance of its assigned 
functions under this paragraph, and such funds received from other 
Government agencies shall remain available until expended.

    public telecommunications facilities, planning and construction

    For the administration of prior-year grants, recoveries and 
unobligated balances of funds previously appropriated are available for 
the administration of all open grants until their expiration.

               United States Patent and Trademark Office

                         salaries and expenses

                     (including transfers of funds)

    For necessary expenses of the United States Patent and Trademark 
Office (USPTO) provided for by law, including defense of suits 
instituted against the Under Secretary of Commerce for Intellectual 
Property and Director of the USPTO, $3,458,000,000, to remain available 
until expended: Provided, That the sum herein appropriated from the 
general fund shall be reduced as offsetting collections of fees and 
surcharges assessed and collected by the USPTO under any law are 
received during fiscal year 2015, so as to result in a fiscal year 2015 
appropriation from the general fund estimated at $0: Provided further, 
That during fiscal year 2015, should the total amount of such 
offsetting collections be less than $3,458,000,000 this amount shall be 
reduced accordingly: Provided further, That any amount received in 
excess of $3,458,000,000 in fiscal year 2015 and deposited in the 
Patent and Trademark Fee Reserve Fund shall remain available until 
expended: Provided further, That the Director of USPTO shall submit a 
spending plan to the Committees on Appropriations of the House of 
Representatives and the Senate for any amounts made available by the 
preceding proviso and such spending plan shall be treated as a 
reprogramming under section 505 of this Act and shall not be available 
for obligation or expenditure except in compliance with the procedures 
set forth in that section: Provided further, That any amounts 
reprogrammed in accordance with the preceding proviso shall be 
transferred to the United States Patent and Trademark Office Salaries 
and Expenses account: Provided further, That from amounts provided 
herein, not to exceed $900 shall be made available in fiscal year 2015 
for official reception and representation expenses: Provided further, 
That in fiscal year 2015 from the amounts made available for ``Salaries 
and Expenses'' for the USPTO, the amounts necessary to pay (1) the 
difference between the percentage of basic pay contributed by the USPTO 
and employees under section 8334(a) of title 5, United States Code, and 
the normal cost percentage (as defined by section 8331(17) of that 
title) as provided by the Office of Personnel Management (OPM) for 
USPTO's specific use, of basic pay, of employees subject to subchapter 
III of chapter 83 of that title, and (2) the present value of the 
otherwise unfunded accruing costs, as determined by OPM for USPTO's 
specific use of post-retirement life insurance and post-retirement 
health benefits coverage for all USPTO employees who are enrolled in 
Federal Employees Health Benefits (FEHB) and Federal Employees Group 
Life Insurance (FEGLI), shall be transferred to the Civil Service 
Retirement and Disability Fund, the FEGLI Fund, and the FEHB Fund, as 
appropriate, and shall be available for the authorized purposes of 
those accounts: Provided further, That any differences between the 
present value factors published in OPM's yearly 300 series benefit 
letters and the factors that OPM provides for USPTO's specific use 
shall be recognized as an imputed cost on USPTO's financial statements, 
where applicable: Provided further, That, notwithstanding any other 
provision of law, all fees and surcharges assessed and collected by 
USPTO are available for USPTO only pursuant to section 42(c) of title 
35, United States Code: Provided further, That within the amounts 
appropriated, $2,000,000 shall be transferred to the ``Office of 
Inspector General'' account for activities associated with carrying out 
investigations and audits related to the USPTO.

             National Institute of Standards and Technology

             scientific and technical research and services

    For necessary expenses of the National Institute of Standards and 
Technology (NIST), $670,500,000, to remain available until expended, of 
which not to exceed $9,000,000 may be transferred to the ``Working 
Capital Fund'': Provided, That not to exceed $5,000 shall be for 
official reception and representation expenses: Provided further, That 
NIST may provide local transportation for summer undergraduate research 
fellowship program participants.

                     industrial technology services

    For necessary expenses of the Hollings Manufacturing Extension 
Partnership of the National Institute of Standards and Technology, 
$130,000,000, to remain available until expended.

                  construction of research facilities

    For construction of new research facilities, including 
architectural and engineering design, and for renovation and 
maintenance of existing facilities, not otherwise provided for the 
National Institute of Standards and Technology, as authorized by 
sections 13 through 15 of the National Institute of Standards and 
Technology Act (15 U.S.C. 278c-278e), $55,300,000, to remain available 
until expended: Provided, That the Secretary of Commerce shall include 
in the budget justification materials that the Secretary submits to 
Congress in support of the Department of Commerce budget (as submitted 
with the budget of the President under section 1105(a) of title 31, 
United States Code) an estimate for each National Institute of 
Standards and Technology construction project having a total multi-year 
program cost of more than $5,000,000 and simultaneously the budget 
justification materials shall include an estimate of the budgetary 
requirements for each such project for each of the 5 subsequent fiscal 
years.

            National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration

                  operations, research, and facilities

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For necessary expenses of activities authorized by law for the 
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, including maintenance, 
operation, and hire of aircraft and vessels; grants, contracts, or 
other payments to nonprofit organizations for the purposes of 
conducting activities pursuant to cooperative agreements; and 
relocation of facilities, $3,089,480,000 (increased by $12,000,000), to 
remain available until September 30, 2016, except that funds provided 
for cooperative enforcement shall remain available until September 30, 
2017: Provided, That fees and donations received by the National Ocean 
Service for the management of national marine sanctuaries may be 
retained and used for the salaries and expenses associated with those 
activities, notwithstanding section 3302 of title 31, United States 
Code: Provided further, That in addition, $116,000,000 shall be derived 
by transfer from the fund entitled ``Promote and Develop Fishery 
Products and Research Pertaining to American Fisheries'': Provided 
further, That of the $3,220,480,000 provided for in direct obligations 
under this heading $3,089,480,000 is appropriated from the general 
fund, $116,000,000 is provided by transfer, and $15,000,000 is derived 
from recoveries of prior year obligations: Provided further, That the 
total amount available for National Oceanic and Atmospheric 
Administration corporate services administrative support costs shall 
not exceed $215,654,000: Provided further, That any deviation from the 
amounts designated for specific activities in the report accompanying 
this Act, or any use of deobligated balances of funds provided under 
this heading in previous years, shall be subject to the procedures set 
forth in section 505 of this Act: Provided further, That in addition, 
for necessary retired pay expenses under the Retired Serviceman's 
Family Protection and Survivor Benefits Plan, and for payments for the 
medical care of retired personnel and their dependents under the 
Dependents Medical Care Act (10 U.S.C. 55), such sums as may be 
necessary.

               procurement, acquisition and construction

    For procurement, acquisition and construction of capital assets, 
including alteration and modification costs, of the National Oceanic 
and Atmospheric Administration, $2,176,290,000, to remain available 
until September 30, 2017, except that funds provided for construction 
of facilities shall remain available until expended: Provided, That of 
the $2,189,290,000 provided for in direct obligations under this 
heading, $2,176,290,000 is appropriated from the general fund and 
$13,000,000 is provided from recoveries of prior year obligations: 
Provided further, That any deviation from the amounts designated for 
specific activities in the report accompanying this Act, or any use of 
deobligated balances of funds provided under this heading in previous 
years, shall be subject to the procedures set forth in section 505 of 
this Act: Provided further, That the Secretary of Commerce shall 
include in budget justification materials that the Secretary submits to 
Congress in support of the Department of Commerce budget (as submitted 
with the budget of the President under section 1105(a) of title 31, 
United States Code) an estimate for each National Oceanic and 
Atmospheric Administration procurement, acquisition or construction 
project having a total of more than $5,000,000 and simultaneously the 
budget justification shall include an estimate of the budgetary 
requirements for each such project for each of the 5 subsequent fiscal 
years: Provided further, That within the amounts appropriated, 
$1,302,000 shall be transferred to the ``Office of Inspector General'' 
account for activities associated with carrying out investigations and 
audits related to satellite procurement, acquisition and construction.

                    pacific coastal salmon recovery

    For necessary expenses associated with the restoration of Pacific 
salmon populations, $65,000,000, to remain available until September 
30, 2016: Provided, That, of the funds provided herein, the Secretary 
of Commerce may issue grants to the States of Washington, Oregon, 
Idaho, Nevada, California, and Alaska, and to the Federally recognized 
tribes of the Columbia River and Pacific Coast (including Alaska), for 
projects necessary for conservation of salmon and steelhead populations 
that are listed as threatened or endangered, or that are identified by 
a State as at-risk to be so listed, for maintaining populations 
necessary for exercise of tribal treaty fishing rights or native 
subsistence fishing, or for conservation of Pacific coastal salmon and 
steelhead habitat, based on guidelines to be developed by the Secretary 
of Commerce: Provided further, That all funds shall be allocated based 
on scientific and other merit principles and shall not be available for 
marketing activities: Provided further, That funds disbursed to States 
shall be subject to a matching requirement of funds or documented in-
kind contributions of at least 33 percent of the Federal funds.

                      fishermen's contingency fund

    For carrying out the provisions of title IV of Public Law 95-372, 
not to exceed $350,000, to be derived from receipts collected pursuant 
to that Act, to remain available until expended.

                   fisheries finance program account

    Subject to section 502 of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974, 
during fiscal year 2015, obligations of direct loans may not exceed 
$24,000,000 for Individual Fishing Quota loans and not to exceed 
$100,000,000 for traditional direct loans as authorized by the Merchant 
Marine Act of 1936.

                        Departmental Management

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses for the management of the Department of 
Commerce provided for by law, including not to exceed $4,500 for 
official reception and representation, $54,000,000 (reduced by 
$1,000,000): Provided, That the Secretary of Commerce shall maintain a 
task force on job repatriation and manufacturing growth and shall 
produce an annual report on related incentive strategies, 
implementation plans and program results.

                      renovation and modernization

    For necessary expenses for the renovation and modernization of 
Department of Commerce facilities, $4,000,000, to remain available 
until expended.

                      office of inspector general

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Inspector General in 
carrying out the provisions of the Inspector General Act of 1978 (5 
U.S.C. App.), $30,596,000.

               General Provisions--Department of Commerce

    Sec. 101.  During the current fiscal year, applicable 
appropriations and funds made available to the Department of Commerce 
by this Act shall be available for the activities specified in the Act 
of October 26, 1949 (15 U.S.C. 1514), to the extent and in the manner 
prescribed by the Act, and, notwithstanding 31 U.S.C. 3324, may be used 
for advanced payments not otherwise authorized only upon the 
certification of officials designated by the Secretary of Commerce that 
such payments are in the public interest.
    Sec. 102.  During the current fiscal year, appropriations made 
available to the Department of Commerce by this Act for salaries and 
expenses shall be available for hire of passenger motor vehicles as 
authorized by 31 U.S.C. 1343 and 1344; services as authorized by 5 
U.S.C. 3109; and uniforms or allowances therefor, as authorized by law 
(5 U.S.C. 5901-5902).
    Sec. 103.  Not to exceed 5 percent of any appropriation made 
available for the current fiscal year for the Department of Commerce in 
this Act may be transferred between such appropriations, but no such 
appropriation shall be increased by more than 10 percent by any such 
transfers: Provided, That any transfer pursuant to this section shall 
be treated as a reprogramming of funds under section 505 of this Act 
and shall not be available for obligation or expenditure except in 
compliance with the procedures set forth in that section: Provided 
further, That the Secretary of Commerce shall notify the Committees on 
Appropriations at least 15 days in advance of the acquisition or 
disposal of any capital asset (including land, structures, and 
equipment) not specifically provided for in this Act or any other law 
appropriating funds for the Department of Commerce.
    Sec. 104.  The requirements set forth by section 105 of the 
Commerce, Justice, Science, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 
2012 (Public Law 112-55), as amended by section 105 of title I of 
division B of Public Law 113-6, are hereby adopted by reference and 
made applicable with respect to fiscal year 2015.
    Sec. 105.  Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the 
Secretary may furnish services (including but not limited to utilities, 
telecommunications, and security services) necessary to support the 
operation, maintenance, and improvement of space that persons, firms, 
or organizations are authorized, pursuant to the Public Buildings 
Cooperative Use Act of 1976 or other authority, to use or occupy in the 
Herbert C. Hoover Building, Washington, DC, or other buildings, the 
maintenance, operation, and protection of which has been delegated to 
the Secretary from the Administrator of General Services pursuant to 
the Federal Property and Administrative Services Act of 1949 on a 
reimbursable or non-reimbursable basis. Amounts received as 
reimbursement for services provided under this section or the authority 
under which the use or occupancy of the space is authorized, up to 
$200,000, shall be credited to the appropriation or fund which 
initially bears the costs of such services.
    Sec. 106.  Nothing in this title shall be construed to prevent a 
grant recipient from deterring child pornography, copyright 
infringement, or any other unlawful activity over its networks.
    Sec. 107.  The Administrator of the National Oceanic and 
Atmospheric Administration is authorized to use, with their consent, 
with reimbursement and subject to the limits of available 
appropriations, the land, services, equipment, personnel, and 
facilities of any department, agency, or instrumentality of the United 
States, or of any State, local government, Indian tribal government, 
Territory, or possession, or of any political subdivision thereof, or 
of any foreign government or international organization, for purposes 
related to carrying out the responsibilities of any statute 
administered by the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration.
    Sec. 108.  The Department of Commerce shall provide a monthly 
report to the Committees on Appropriations of the House of 
Representatives and the Senate on any official travel to China by any 
employee of the U.S. Department of Commerce, including the purpose of 
such travel.
    This title may be cited as the ``Department of Commerce 
Appropriations Act, 2015''.

                                TITLE II

                         DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

                         General Administration

                         salaries and expenses

    For expenses necessary for the administration of the Department of 
Justice, $103,851,000 (reduced by $1,000,000) (reduced by $1,000,000) 
(reduced by $1,000,000) (reduced by $1,500,000) (reduced by $2,000,000) 
(reduced by $1,044,445) (reduced by $5,000,000) (increased by 
$5,000,000), of which not to exceed $4,000,000 for security and 
construction of Department of Justice facilities shall remain available 
until expended.

                 justice information sharing technology

    For necessary expenses for information sharing technology, 
including planning, development, deployment and departmental direction, 
$25,842,000 (reduced by $2,500,000) (reduced by $3,000,000), to remain 
available until expended: Provided, That the Attorney General may 
transfer up to $35,400,000 to this account, from funds available to the 
Department of Justice for information technology, for enterprise-wide 
information technology initiatives: Provided further, That the transfer 
authority in the preceding proviso is in addition to any other transfer 
authority contained in this Act.

                   administrative review and appeals

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For expenses necessary for the administration of pardon and 
clemency petitions and immigration-related activities, $335,000,000 
(increased by $1,000,000), of which $4,000,000 shall be derived by 
transfer from the Executive Office for Immigration Review fees 
deposited in the ``Immigration Examinations Fee'' account: Provided, 
That, of the amount provided, not to exceed $10,000,000 is for the 
Executive Office for Immigration Review for courthouse operations, 
language services and automated system requirements and shall remain 
available until expended.

                      office of inspector general

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Inspector General, 
$88,000,000, including not to exceed $10,000 to meet unforeseen 
emergencies of a confidential character.

                    United States Parole Commission

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the United States Parole Commission as 
authorized, $13,308,000.

                            Legal Activities

            salaries and expenses, general legal activities

    For expenses necessary for the legal activities of the Department 
of Justice, not otherwise provided for, including not to exceed $20,000 
for expenses of collecting evidence, to be expended under the direction 
of, and to be accounted for solely under the certificate of, the 
Attorney General; and rent of private or Government-owned space in the 
District of Columbia, $893,000,000 (reduced by $866,000) (reduced by 
$8,000,000), of which not to exceed $20,000,000 for litigation support 
contracts shall remain available until expended: Provided, That of the 
total amount appropriated, not to exceed $9,000 shall be available to 
INTERPOL Washington for official reception and representation expenses: 
Provided further, That notwithstanding section 205 of this Act, upon a 
determination by the Attorney General that emergent circumstances 
require additional funding for litigation activities of the Civil 
Division, the Attorney General may transfer such amounts to ``Salaries 
and Expenses, General Legal Activities'' from available appropriations 
for the current fiscal year for the Department of Justice as may be 
necessary to respond to such circumstances: Provided further, That any 
transfer pursuant to the preceding proviso shall be treated as a 
reprogramming under section 505 of this Act and shall not be available 
for obligation or expenditure except in compliance with the procedures 
set forth in that section: Provided further, That of the amount 
appropriated, such sums as may be necessary shall be available to the 
Civil Rights Division for salaries and expenses associated with the 
election monitoring program under section 8 of the Voting Rights Act of 
1965 (42 U.S.C. 1973f) and to reimburse the Office of Personnel 
Management for such salaries and expenses: Provided further, That of 
the amounts provided under this heading for the election monitoring 
program, $3,390,000 shall remain available until expended.
    In addition, for reimbursement of expenses of the Department of 
Justice associated with processing cases under the National Childhood 
Vaccine Injury Act of 1986, not to exceed $7,833,000, to be 
appropriated from the Vaccine Injury Compensation Trust Fund.

               salaries and expenses, antitrust division

    For expenses necessary for the enforcement of antitrust and kindred 
laws, $162,246,000, to remain available until expended: Provided, That 
notwithstanding any other provision of law, fees collected for 
premerger notification filings under the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust 
Improvements Act of 1976 (15 U.S.C. 18a), regardless of the year of 
collection (and estimated to be $100,000,000 in fiscal year 2015), 
shall be retained and used for necessary expenses in this 
appropriation, and shall remain available until expended: Provided 
further, That the sum herein appropriated from the general fund shall 
be reduced as such offsetting collections are received during fiscal 
year 2015, so as to result in a final fiscal year 2015 appropriation 
from the general fund estimated at $62,246,000.

             salaries and expenses, united states attorneys

    For necessary expenses of the Offices of the United States 
Attorneys, including inter-governmental and cooperative agreements, 
$1,970,000,000 (increased by $1,000,000): Provided, That of the total 
amount appropriated, not to exceed $7,200 shall be available for 
official reception and representation expenses: Provided further, That 
not to exceed $25,000,000 shall remain available until expended: 
Provided further, That each United States Attorney shall establish or 
participate in a United States Attorney-led task force on human 
trafficking.

                   united states trustee system fund

    For necessary expenses of the United States Trustee Program, as 
authorized, $225,908,000, to remain available until expended and to be 
derived from the United States Trustee System Fund: Provided, That, 
notwithstanding any other provision of law, deposits to the Fund shall 
be available in such amounts as may be necessary to pay refunds due 
depositors: Provided further, That, notwithstanding any other provision 
of law, $225,908,000 of offsetting collections pursuant to section 
589a(b) of title 28, United States Code, shall be retained and used for 
necessary expenses in this appropriation and shall remain available 
until expended: Provided further, That the sum herein appropriated from 
the Fund shall be reduced as such offsetting collections are received 
during fiscal year 2015, so as to result in a final fiscal year 2015 
appropriation from the Fund estimated at $0.

      salaries and expenses, foreign claims settlement commission

    For expenses necessary to carry out the activities of the Foreign 
Claims Settlement Commission, including services as authorized by 
section 3109 of title 5, United States Code, $2,326,000.

                     fees and expenses of witnesses

    For fees and expenses of witnesses, for expenses of contracts for 
the procurement and supervision of expert witnesses, for private 
counsel expenses, including advances, and for expenses of foreign 
counsel, $270,000,000, to remain available until expended, of which not 
to exceed $16,000,000 is for construction of buildings for protected 
witness safesites; not to exceed $3,000,000 is for the purchase and 
maintenance of armored and other vehicles for witness security 
caravans; and not to exceed $11,000,000 is for the purchase, 
installation, maintenance, and upgrade of secure telecommunications 
equipment and a secure automated information network to store and 
retrieve the identities and locations of protected witnesses.

           salaries and expenses, community relations service

    For necessary expenses of the Community Relations Service, 
$12,000,000: Provided, That notwithstanding section 205 of this Act, 
upon a determination by the Attorney General that emergent 
circumstances require additional funding for conflict resolution and 
violence prevention activities of the Community Relations Service, the 
Attorney General may transfer such amounts to the Community Relations 
Service, from available appropriations for the current fiscal year for 
the Department of Justice, as may be necessary to respond to such 
circumstances: Provided further, That any transfer pursuant to the 
preceding proviso shall be treated as a reprogramming under section 505 
of this Act and shall not be available for obligation or expenditure 
except in compliance with the procedures set forth in that section.

                         assets forfeiture fund

    For expenses authorized by subparagraphs (B), (F), and (G) of 
section 524(c)(1) of title 28, United States Code, $20,514,000, to be 
derived from the Department of Justice Assets Forfeiture Fund.

                     United States Marshals Service

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the United States Marshals Service, 
$1,199,000,000, of which not to exceed $6,000 shall be available for 
official reception and representation expenses, and not to exceed 
$15,000,000 shall remain available until expended.

                              construction

    For construction in space controlled, occupied or utilized by the 
United States Marshals Service for prisoner holding and related 
support, $9,800,000, to remain available until expended.

                       federal prisoner detention

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For necessary expenses related to United States prisoners in the 
custody of the United States Marshals Service as authorized by section 
4013 of title 18, United States Code, $1,595,307,000, to remain 
available until expended: Provided, That not to exceed $20,000,000 
shall be considered ``funds appropriated for State and local law 
enforcement assistance'' pursuant to section 4013(b) of title 18, 
United States Code: Provided further, That the United States Marshals 
Service shall be responsible for managing the Justice Prisoner and 
Alien Transportation System: Provided further, That any unobligated 
balances available from funds appropriated under the heading `General 
Administration, Detention Trustee' shall be transferred to and merged 
with the appropriation under this heading.

                       National Security Division

                         salaries and expenses

    For expenses necessary to carry out the activities of the National 
Security Division, $94,800,000, of which not to exceed $5,000,000 for 
information technology systems shall remain available until expended: 
Provided, That notwithstanding section 205 of this Act, upon a 
determination by the Attorney General that emergent circumstances 
require additional funding for the activities of the National Security 
Division, the Attorney General may transfer such amounts to this 
heading from available appropriations for the current fiscal year for 
the Department of Justice as may be necessary to respond to such 
circumstances: Provided further, That any transfer pursuant to the 
preceding proviso shall be treated as a reprogramming under section 505 
of this Act and shall not be available for obligation or expenditure 
except in compliance with the procedures set forth in that section.

                      Interagency Law Enforcement

                 interagency crime and drug enforcement

    For necessary expenses for the identification, investigation, and 
prosecution of individuals associated with the most significant drug 
trafficking and affiliated money laundering organizations not otherwise 
provided for, to include inter-governmental agreements with State and 
local law enforcement agencies engaged in the investigation and 
prosecution of individuals involved in organized crime drug 
trafficking, $515,000,000 (increased by $4,000,000), of which 
$50,000,000 shall remain available until expended: Provided, That any 
amounts obligated from appropriations under this heading may be used 
under authorities available to the organizations reimbursed from this 
appropriation.

                    Federal Bureau of Investigation

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Federal Bureau of Investigation for 
detection, investigation, and prosecution of crimes against the United 
States, $8,356,857,000, of which not less than $8,500,000 shall be for 
the National Gang and Human Trafficking Intelligence Center, and of 
which not to exceed $216,900,000 shall remain available until expended: 
Provided, That not to exceed $184,500 shall be available for official 
reception and representation expenses: Provided further, That up to 
$1,000,000 shall be for a comprehensive review of the implementation of 
the recommendations related to the Federal Bureau of Investigation that 
were proposed in the report issued by the National Commission on 
Terrorist Attacks Upon the United States.

                              construction

    For necessary expenses, to include the cost of equipment, 
furniture, and information technology requirements, related to 
construction or acquisition of buildings, facilities and sites by 
purchase, or as otherwise authorized by law; conversion, modification 
and extension of Federally-owned buildings; preliminary planning and 
design of projects; and operation and maintenance of secure work 
environment facilities and secure networking capabilities; 
$110,982,000, to remain available until expended.

                    Drug Enforcement Administration

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Drug Enforcement Administration, 
including not to exceed $70,000 to meet unforeseen emergencies of a 
confidential character pursuant to section 530C of title 28, United 
States Code; and expenses for conducting drug education and training 
programs, including travel and related expenses for participants in 
such programs and the distribution of items of token value that promote 
the goals of such programs, $2,053,320,000 (reduced by $5,000,000); of 
which not to exceed $75,000,000 shall remain available until expended 
and not to exceed $90,000 shall be available for official reception and 
representation expenses.

          Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms 
and Explosives, for training of State and local law enforcement 
agencies with or without reimbursement, including training in 
connection with the training and acquisition of canines for explosives 
and fire accelerants detection; and for provision of laboratory 
assistance to State and local law enforcement agencies, with or without 
reimbursement, $1,200,000,000 (reduced by $6,000,000), of which not to 
exceed $36,000 shall be for official reception and representation 
expenses, not to exceed $1,000,000 shall be available for the payment 
of attorneys' fees as provided by section 924(d)(2) of title 18, United 
States Code, and not to exceed $20,000,000 shall remain available until 
expended: Provided, That none of the funds appropriated herein shall be 
available to investigate or act upon applications for relief from 
Federal firearms disabilities under section 925(c) of title 18, United 
States Code: Provided further, That such funds shall be available to 
investigate and act upon applications filed by corporations for relief 
from Federal firearms disabilities under section 925(c) of title 18, 
United States Code: Provided further, That no funds made available by 
this or any other Act may be used to transfer the functions, missions, 
or activities of the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and 
Explosives to other agencies or Departments: Provided further, That the 
Federal Building at 99 New York Avenue, NE, Washington, DC, 
headquarters of the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and 
Explosives, shall hereafter be known and designated as the Ariel Rios 
Federal Building.

                         Federal Prison System

                         salaries and expenses

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For necessary expenses of the Federal Prison System for the 
administration, operation, and maintenance of Federal penal and 
correctional institutions, and for the provision of technical 
assistance and advice on corrections related issues to foreign 
governments, $6,865,000,000 (reduced by $500,000) (reduced by $500,000) 
(reduced by $1,000,000): Provided, That the Attorney General may 
transfer to the Health Resources and Services Administration such 
amounts as may be necessary for direct expenditures by that 
Administration for medical relief for inmates of Federal penal and 
correctional institutions: Provided further, That the Director of the 
Federal Prison System, where necessary, may enter into contracts with a 
fiscal agent or fiscal intermediary claims processor to determine the 
amounts payable to persons who, on behalf of the Federal Prison System, 
furnish health services to individuals committed to the custody of the 
Federal Prison System: Provided further, That not to exceed $5,400 
shall be available for official reception and representation expenses: 
Provided further, That not to exceed $50,000,000 shall remain available 
for necessary operations until September 30, 2016: Provided further, 
That, of the amounts provided for contract confinement, not to exceed 
$20,000,000 shall remain available until expended to make payments in 
advance for grants, contracts and reimbursable agreements, and other 
expenses: Provided further, That the Director of the Federal Prison 
System may accept donated property and services relating to the 
operation of the prison card program from a not-for-profit entity which 
has operated such program in the past, notwithstanding the fact that 
such not-for-profit entity furnishes services under contracts to the 
Federal Prison System relating to the operation of pre-release 
services, halfway houses, or other custodial facilities.

                        buildings and facilities

    For planning, acquisition of sites and construction of new 
facilities; purchase and acquisition of facilities and remodeling, and 
equipping of such facilities for penal and correctional use, including 
all necessary expenses incident thereto, by contract or force account; 
and constructing, remodeling, and equipping necessary buildings and 
facilities at existing penal and correctional institutions, including 
all necessary expenses incident thereto, by contract or force account, 
$115,000,000 (reduced by $2,200,000) (reduced by $5,500,000), to remain 
available until expended, of which $25,000,000 (reduced by $5,500,000) 
shall be available only for costs related to construction of new 
facilities, of which not less than $76,000,000 (reduced by $2,200,000) 
shall be available only for modernization, maintenance and repair, and 
of which not to exceed $14,000,000 shall be available to construct 
areas for inmate work programs: Provided, That labor of United States 
prisoners may be used for work performed under this appropriation.

                federal prison industries, incorporated

    The Federal Prison Industries, Incorporated, is hereby authorized 
to make such expenditures within the limits of funds and borrowing 
authority available, and in accord with the law, and to make such 
contracts and commitments without regard to fiscal year limitations as 
provided by section 9104 of title 31, United States Code, as may be 
necessary in carrying out the program set forth in the budget for the 
current fiscal year for such corporation.

   limitation on administrative expenses, federal prison industries, 
                              incorporated

    Not to exceed $2,700,000 of the funds of the Federal Prison 
Industries, Incorporated, shall be available for its administrative 
expenses, and for services as authorized by section 3109 of title 5, 
United States Code, to be computed on an accrual basis to be determined 
in accordance with the corporation's current prescribed accounting 
system, and such amounts shall be exclusive of depreciation, payment of 
claims, and expenditures which such accounting system requires to be 
capitalized or charged to cost of commodities acquired or produced, 
including selling and shipping expenses, and expenses in connection 
with acquisition, construction, operation, maintenance, improvement, 
protection, or disposition of facilities and other property belonging 
to the corporation or in which it has an interest.

               State and Local Law Enforcement Activities

                    Office on Violence Against Women

       violence against women prevention and prosecution programs

    For grants, contracts, cooperative agreements, and other assistance 
for the prevention and prosecution of violence against women, as 
authorized by the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968 
(42 U.S.C. 3711 et seq.) (``the 1968 Act''); the Violent Crime Control 
and Law Enforcement Act of 1994 (Public Law 103-322) (``the 1994 
Act''); the Victims of Child Abuse Act of 1990 (Public Law 101-647) 
(``the 1990 Act''); the Prosecutorial Remedies and Other Tools to end 
the Exploitation of Children Today Act of 2003 (Public Law 108-21); the 
Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention Act of 1974 (42 U.S.C. 5601 
et seq.) (``the 1974 Act''); the Victims of Trafficking and Violence 
Protection Act of 2000 (Public Law 106-386) (``the 2000 Act''); the 
Violence Against Women and Department of Justice Reauthorization Act of 
2005 (Public Law 109-162) (``the 2005 Act''); and the Violence Against 
Women Reauthorization Act of 2013 (Public Law 113-4) (``the 2013 
Act''); and for related victims services, $425,500,000 (increased by 
$1,000,000) (increased by $500,000) (increased by $2,500,000), to 
remain available until expended: Provided, That except as otherwise 
provided by law, not to exceed 5 percent of funds made available under 
this heading may be used for expenses related to evaluation, training, 
and technical assistance: Provided further, That of the amount 
provided--
            (1) $195,000,000 is for grants to combat violence against 
        women, as authorized by part T of the 1968 Act;
            (2) $25,000,000 is for transitional housing assistance 
        grants for victims of domestic violence, dating violence, 
        stalking or sexual assault as authorized by section 40299 of 
        the 1994 Act;
            (3) $3,000,000 is for the National Institute of Justice for 
        research and evaluation of violence against women and related 
        issues addressed by grant programs of the Office on Violence 
        Against Women, which shall be transferred to ``Research, 
        Evaluation and Statistics'' for administration by the Office of 
        Justice Programs;
            (4) $10,000,000 is for a grant program to provide services 
        to advocate for and respond to youth victims of domestic 
        violence, dating violence, sexual assault, and stalking; 
        assistance to children and youth exposed to such violence; 
        programs to engage men and youth in preventing such violence; 
        and assistance to middle and high school students through 
        education and other services related to such violence: 
        Provided, That unobligated balances available for the programs 
        authorized by sections 41201, 41204, 41303 and 41305 of the 
        1994 Act, prior to its amendment by the 2013 Act, shall be 
        available for this program: Provided further, That 10 percent 
        of the total amount available for this grant program shall be 
        available for grants under the program authorized by section 
        2015 of the 1968 Act: Provided further, That the definitions 
        and grant conditions in section 40002 of the 1994 Act shall 
        apply to this program;
            (5) $50,000,000 is for grants to encourage arrest policies 
        as authorized by part U of the 1968 Act, of which $4,000,000 is 
        for a homicide reduction initiative;
            (6) $29,500,000 is for sexual assault victims assistance, 
        as authorized by section 41601 of the 1994 Act;
            (7) $31,000,000 (increased by $2,500,000) is for rural 
        domestic violence and child abuse enforcement assistance 
        grants, including as authorized by section 40295 of the 1994 
        Act;
            (8) $11,500,000 (increased by $1,000,000) is for grants to 
        reduce violent crimes against women on campus, as authorized by 
        section 304 of the 2005 Act;
            (9) $42,500,000 is for legal assistance for victims, as 
        authorized by section 1201 of the 2000 Act;
            (10) $4,250,000 is for enhanced training and services to 
        end violence against and abuse of women in later life, as 
        authorized by section 40802 of the 1994 Act;
            (11) $16,000,000 is for grants to support families in the 
        justice system, as authorized by section 1301 of the 2000 Act: 
        Provided, That unobligated balances available for the programs 
        authorized by section 1301 of the 2000 Act and section 41002 of 
        the 1994 Act, prior to their amendment by the 2013 Act, shall 
        be available for this program;
            (12) $5,750,000 is for education and training to end 
        violence against and abuse of women with disabilities, as 
        authorized by section 1402 of the 2000 Act;
            (13) $500,000 is for the National Resource Center on 
        Workplace Responses to assist victims of domestic violence, as 
        authorized by section 41501 of the 1994 Act;
            (14) $1,000,000 is for analysis and research on violence 
        against Indian women, including as authorized by section 904 of 
        the 2005 Act: Provided, That such funds may be transferred to 
        ``Research, Evaluation and Statistics'' for administration by 
        the Office of Justice Programs; and
            (15) $500,000 is for a national clearinghouse that provides 
        training and technical assistance on issues relating to sexual 
        assault of American Indian and Alaska Native women.

                       Office of Justice Programs

                  research, evaluation and statistics

    For grants, contracts, cooperative agreements, and other assistance 
authorized by title I of the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act 
of 1968 (``the 1968 Act''); the Juvenile Justice and Delinquency 
Prevention Act of 1974 (``the 1974 Act''); the Missing Children's 
Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5771 et seq.); the Prosecutorial Remedies and 
Other Tools to end the Exploitation of Children Today Act of 2003 
(Public Law 108-21); the Justice for All Act of 2004 (Public Law 108-
405); the Violence Against Women and Department of Justice 
Reauthorization Act of 2005 (Public Law 109-162) (``the 2005 Act''); 
the Victims of Child Abuse Act of 1990 (Public Law 101-647); the Second 
Chance Act of 2007 (Public Law 110-199); the Victims of Crime Act of 
1984 (Public Law 98-473); the Adam Walsh Child Protection and Safety 
Act of 2006 (Public Law 109-248) (``the Adam Walsh Act''); the PROTECT 
Our Children Act of 2008 (Public Law 110-401); subtitle D of title II 
of the Homeland Security Act of 2002 (Public Law 107-296) (``the 2002 
Act''); the NICS Improvement Amendments Act of 2007 (Public Law 110-
180); the Violence Against Women Reauthorization Act of 2013 (Public 
Law 113-4) (``the 2013 Act''); and other programs, $124,250,000 
(reduced by $4,250,000), to remain available until expended, of which--
            (1) $47,250,000 (reduced by $2,250,000) is for criminal 
        justice statistics programs, and other activities, as 
        authorized by part C of title I of the 1968 Act: Provided, That 
        beginning not later than 2 years after the date of enactment of 
        this Act, as part of each National Crime Victimization Survey, 
        the Attorney General shall include statistics relating to honor 
        violence;
            (2) $42,000,000 (reduced by $2,000,000) is for research, 
        development, and evaluation programs, and other activities as 
        authorized by part B of title I of the 1968 Act and subtitle D 
        of title II of the 2002 Act; and
            (3) $35,000,000 is for regional information sharing 
        activities, as authorized by part M of title I of the 1968 Act.

               state and local law enforcement assistance

    For grants, contracts, cooperative agreements, and other assistance 
authorized by the Violent Crime Control and Law Enforcement Act of 1994 
(Public Law 103-322) (``the 1994 Act''); the Omnibus Crime Control and 
Safe Streets Act of 1968 (``the 1968 Act''); the Justice for All Act of 
2004 (Public Law 108-405); the Victims of Child Abuse Act of 1990 
(Public Law 101-647) (``the 1990 Act''); the Trafficking Victims 
Protection Reauthorization Act of 2005 (Public Law 109-164); the 
Violence Against Women and Department of Justice Reauthorization Act of 
2005 (Public Law 109-162) (``the 2005 Act''); the Adam Walsh Child 
Protection and Safety Act of 2006 (Public Law 109-248) (``the Adam 
Walsh Act''); the Victims of Trafficking and Violence Protection Act of 
2000 (Public Law 106-386); the NICS Improvement Amendments Act of 2007 
(Public Law 110-180); subtitle D of title II of the Homeland Security 
Act of 2002 (Public Law 107-296) (``the 2002 Act''); the Second Chance 
Act of 2007 (Public Law 110-199); the Prioritizing Resources and 
Organization for Intellectual Property Act of 2008 (Public Law 110-
403); the Victims of Crime Act of 1984 (Public Law 98-473); the 
Mentally Ill Offender Treatment and Crime Reduction Reauthorization and 
Improvement Act of 2008 (Public Law 110-416); the Violence Against 
Women Reauthorization Act of 2013 (Public Law 113-4) (``the 2013 
Act''); and other programs, $1,235,615,000 (increased by $3,000,000) 
(increased by $4,000,000) (increased by $1,000,000) (increased by 
$2,000,000) (increased by $3,000,000) (increased by $8,000,000) 
(increased by $5,000,000) (increased by $6,000,000) (increased by 
$1,000,000) (increased by $1,000,000) (reduced by $2,500,000) 
(increased by $4,250,000) (increased by $19,500,000), to remain 
available until expended as follows--
            (1) $376,000,000 (increased by $4,250,000) for the Edward 
        Byrne Memorial Justice Assistance Grant program as authorized 
        by subpart 1 of part E of title I of the 1968 Act (except that 
        section 1001(c), and the special rules for Puerto Rico under 
        section 505(g) of title I of the 1968 Act shall not apply for 
        purposes of this Act), of which, notwithstanding such subpart 
        1, $2,500,000 is for an initiative to improve the quality of 
        juvenile indigent defense services, $15,000,000 is for a 
        Preventing Violence Against Law Enforcement Officer Resilience 
        and Survivability Initiative (VALOR), $4,000,000 is for use by 
        the National Institute of Justice for research targeted toward 
        developing a better understanding of the domestic 
        radicalization phenomenon, and advancing evidence-based 
        strategies for effective intervention and prevention, and 
        $6,000,000 is for competitive grants to distribute firearm 
        safety materials and gun locks;
            (2) $210,000,000 for the State Criminal Alien Assistance 
        Program, as authorized by section 241(i)(5) of the Immigration 
        and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1231(i)(5)): Provided, That no 
        jurisdiction shall request compensation for any cost greater 
        than the actual cost for Federal immigration and other 
        detainees housed in State and local detention facilities;
            (3) $8,000,000 (reduced by $2,500,000) for competitive 
        grants to improve the functioning of the criminal justice 
        system, to prevent or combat juvenile delinquency, and to 
        assist victims of crime (other than compensation);
            (4) $45,365,000 for victim services programs for victims of 
        trafficking, as authorized by section 107(b)(2) of Public Law 
        106-386, and for programs authorized under Public Law 109-164;
            (5) $41,000,000 (increased by $3,000,000) for Drug Courts, 
        as authorized by section 1001(a)(25)(A) of title I of the 1968 
        Act;
            (6) $9,000,000 (increased by $2,000,000) (increased by 
        $2,000,000) for mental health courts and adult and juvenile 
        collaboration program grants, as authorized by parts V and HH 
        of title I of the 1968 Act, and the Mentally Ill Offender 
        Treatment and Crime Reduction Reauthorization and Improvement 
        Act of 2008 (Public Law 110-416);
            (7) $12,000,000 for grants for Residential Substance Abuse 
        Treatment for State Prisoners, as authorized by part S of title 
        I of the 1968 Act;
            (8) $2,000,000 for the Capital Litigation Improvement Grant 
        Program, as authorized by section 426 of Public Law 108-405, 
        and for grants for wrongful conviction review;
            (9) $10,000,000 for economic, high technology and Internet 
        crime prevention grants, including as authorized by section 401 
        of Public Law 110-403;
            (10) $21,000,000 for sex offender management assistance, as 
        authorized by the Adam Walsh Act, and related activities, of 
        which $1,000,000 is for the National Sex Offender Public 
        Website;
            (11) $22,250,000 for the matching grant program for law 
        enforcement armor vests, as authorized by section 2501 of title 
        I of the 1968 Act;
            (12) $58,500,000 (increased by $19,500,000) for grants to 
        States to upgrade criminal and mental health records for the 
        National Instant Criminal Background Check System, including as 
        authorized by the NICS Improvement Amendments Act of 2007 
        (Public Law 110-180);
            (13) $125,000,000 for DNA-related and forensic programs and 
        activities, of which--
                    (A) $117,000,000 is for a DNA analysis and capacity 
                enhancement program and for other local, State, and 
                Federal forensic activities, including the purposes 
                authorized under section 2 of the DNA Analysis Backlog 
                Elimination Act of 2000 (Public Law 106-546) (the 
                Debbie Smith DNA Backlog Grant Program): Provided, That 
                up to 4 percent of funds made available under this 
                paragraph may be used for the purposes described in the 
                DNA Training and Education for Law Enforcement, 
                Correctional Personnel, and Court Officers program 
                (Public Law 108-405, section 303);
                    (B) $4,000,000 is for the purposes described in the 
                Kirk Bloodsworth Post-Conviction DNA Testing Program 
                (Public Law 108-405, section 412); and
                    (C) $4,000,000 is for Sexual Assault Forensic Exam 
                Program grants, including as authorized by section 304 
                of Public Law 108-405;
            (14) $36,000,000 (increased by $5,000,000) for grants to 
        address backlogs of sexual assault kits at law enforcement 
        agencies;
            (15) $6,000,000 for the court-appointed special advocate 
        program, as authorized by section 217 of the 1990 Act;
            (16) $35,000,000 for assistance to Indian tribes;
            (17) $62,500,000 (increased by $3,000,000) for offender 
        reentry programs and research, as authorized by the Second 
        Chance Act of 2007 (Public Law 110-199), without regard to the 
        time limitations specified at section 6(1) of such Act;
            (18) $5,000,000 (increased by $2,000,000) (increased by 
        $1,000,000) (increased by $6,000,000) (increased by $1,000,000) 
        for a veterans treatment courts program;
            (19) $1,000,000 for the purposes described in the Missing 
        Alzheimer's Disease Patient Alert Program (section 240001 of 
        the 1994 Act);
            (20) $8,000,000 (increased by $8,000,000) for a program to 
        monitor prescription drugs and scheduled listed chemical 
        products;
            (21) $15,000,000 for prison rape prevention and prosecution 
        grants to States and units of local government, and other 
        programs, as authorized by the Prison Rape Elimination Act of 
        2003 (Public Law 108-79);
            (22) $2,000,000 to operate a National Center for Campus 
        Public Safety;
            (23) $30,000,000 for a justice reinvestment initiative, for 
        activities related to criminal justice reform and recidivism 
        reduction, of which not less than $1,000,000 is for a task 
        force on Federal corrections;
            (24) $75,000,000 for the Comprehensive School Safety 
        Initiative, described in the report accompanying this Act: 
        Provided, That section 213 of this Act shall not apply with 
        respect to the amount made available in this paragraph; and
            (25) $20,000,000 (increased by $1,000,000) for existing 
        evidence-based criminal justice programs as described in the 
        report accompanying this Act:
 Provided, That, if a unit of local government uses any of the funds 
made available under this heading to increase the number of law 
enforcement officers, the unit of local government will achieve a net 
gain in the number of law enforcement officers who perform non-
administrative public sector safety service.

                       juvenile justice programs

    For grants, contracts, cooperative agreements, and other assistance 
authorized by the Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention Act of 
1974 (``the 1974 Act''); the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act 
of 1968 (``the 1968 Act''); the Violence Against Women and Department 
of Justice Reauthorization Act of 2005 (Public Law 109-162) (``the 2005 
Act''); the Missing Children's Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5771 et seq.); 
the Prosecutorial Remedies and Other Tools to end the Exploitation of 
Children Today Act of 2003 (Public Law 108-21); the Victims of Child 
Abuse Act of 1990 (Public Law 101-647) (``the 1990 Act''); the Adam 
Walsh Child Protection and Safety Act of 2006 (Public Law 109-248) 
(``the Adam Walsh Act''); the PROTECT Our Children Act of 2008 (Public 
Law 110-401); the Violence Against Women Reauthorization Act of 2013 
(Public Law 113-4) (``the 2013 Act''); and other juvenile justice 
programs, $223,500,000, to remain available until expended as follows--
            (1) $45,000,000 for programs authorized by section 221 of 
        the 1974 Act;
            (2) $90,000,000 for youth mentoring grants;
            (3) $19,000,000 for programs authorized by the Victims of 
        Child Abuse Act of 1990;
            (4) $68,000,000 for missing and exploited children 
        programs, including as authorized by sections 404(b) and 405(a) 
        of the 1974 Act (except that section 102(b)(4)(B) of the 
        PROTECT Our Children Act of 2008 (Public Law 110-401) shall not 
        apply for purposes of this Act); and
            (5) $1,500,000 for child abuse training programs for 
        judicial personnel and practitioners, as authorized by section 
        222 of the 1990 Act:
 Provided, That not more than 10 percent of each amount may be used for 
research, evaluation, and statistics activities designed to benefit the 
programs or activities authorized: Provided further, That not more than 
2 percent of the amounts designated under paragraphs (1) through (3) 
and (5) may be used for training and technical assistance: Provided 
further, That the two preceding provisos shall not apply to grants and 
projects authorized by sections 261 and 262 of the 1974 Act and to 
missing and exploited children programs.

                     public safety officer benefits

    For payments and expenses authorized under section 1001(a)(4) of 
title I of the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968, such 
sums as are necessary (including amounts for administrative costs), to 
remain available until expended; and $16,300,000 for payments 
authorized by section 1201(b) of such Act and for educational 
assistance authorized by section 1218 of such Act, to remain available 
until expended: Provided, That notwithstanding section 205 of this Act, 
upon a determination by the Attorney General that emergent 
circumstances require additional funding for such disability and 
education payments, the Attorney General may transfer such amounts to 
``Public Safety Officer Benefits'' from available appropriations for 
the Department of Justice as may be necessary to respond to such 
circumstances: Provided further, That any transfer pursuant to the 
preceding proviso shall be treated as a reprogramming under section 505 
of this Act and shall not be available for obligation or expenditure 
except in compliance with the procedures set forth in that section.

                  Community Oriented Policing Services

             community oriented policing services programs

    For activities authorized by the Violent Crime Control and Law 
Enforcement Act of 1994 (Public Law 103-322); the Omnibus Crime Control 
and Safe Streets Act of 1968 (``the 1968 Act''); and the Violence 
Against Women and Department of Justice Reauthorization Act of 2005 
(Public Law 109-162) (``the 2005 Act''), $96,500,000 (increased by 
$110,000,000) (increased by $3,000,000), to remain available until 
expended: Provided, That any balances made available through prior year 
deobligations shall only be available in accordance with section 505 of 
this Act: Provided further, That of the amount provided under this 
heading--
            (1) $10,000,000 is for anti-methamphetamine-related 
        activities, which shall be transferred to the Drug Enforcement 
        Administration upon enactment of this Act;
            (2) $16,500,000 is for improving tribal law enforcement, 
        including hiring, equipment, training, and anti-methamphetamine 
        activities; and
            (3) $70,000,000 (increased by $110,000,000) is for grants 
        under section 1701 of title I of the 1968 Act (42 U.S.C. 
        3796dd) for the hiring and rehiring of additional career law 
        enforcement officers under part Q of such title notwithstanding 
        subsection (i) of such section: Provided, That, notwithstanding 
        section 1704(c) of such title (42 U.S.C. 3796dd-3(c)), funding 
        for hiring or rehiring a career law enforcement officer may not 
        exceed $125,000 unless the Director of the Office of Community 
        Oriented Policing Services grants a waiver from this 
        limitation: Provided further, That within the amounts 
        appropriated under this paragraph, $16,500,000 shall be 
        transferred to the Tribal Resources Grant Program: Provided 
        further, That within the amounts appropriated under this 
        paragraph, $10,000,000 is for regional anti-gang task forces.

               General Provisions--Department of Justice

    Sec. 201.  In addition to amounts otherwise made available in this 
title for official reception and representation expenses, a total of 
not to exceed $50,000 from funds appropriated to the Department of 
Justice in this title shall be available to the Attorney General for 
official reception and representation expenses.
    Sec. 202.  None of the funds appropriated by this title shall be 
available to pay for an abortion, except where the life of the mother 
would be endangered if the fetus were carried to term, or in the case 
of rape: Provided, That should this prohibition be declared 
unconstitutional by a court of competent jurisdiction, this section 
shall be null and void.
    Sec. 203.  None of the funds appropriated under this title shall be 
used to require any person to perform, or facilitate in any way the 
performance of, any abortion.
    Sec. 204.  Nothing in the preceding section shall remove the 
obligation of the Director of the Bureau of Prisons to provide escort 
services necessary for a female inmate to receive such service outside 
the Federal facility: Provided, That nothing in this section in any way 
diminishes the effect of section 203 intended to address the 
philosophical beliefs of individual employees of the Bureau of Prisons.
    Sec. 205.  Not to exceed 5 percent of any appropriation made 
available for the current fiscal year for the Department of Justice in 
this Act may be transferred between such appropriations, but no such 
appropriation, except as otherwise specifically provided, shall be 
increased by more than 10 percent by any such transfers: Provided, That 
any transfer pursuant to this section shall be treated as a 
reprogramming of funds under section 505 of this Act and shall not be 
available for obligation except in compliance with the procedures set 
forth in that section.
    Sec. 206.  The Attorney General is authorized to extend through 
September 30, 2015, the Personnel Management Demonstration Project 
transferred to the Attorney General pursuant to section 1115 of the 
Homeland Security Act of 2002 (Public Law 107-296; 28 U.S.C. 599B) 
without limitation on the number of employees or the positions covered.
    Sec. 207.  None of the funds made available under this title may be 
used by the Federal Bureau of Prisons or the United States Marshals 
Service for the purpose of transporting an individual who is a prisoner 
pursuant to conviction for crime under State or Federal law and is 
classified as a maximum or high security prisoner, other than to a 
prison or other facility certified by the Federal Bureau of Prisons as 
appropriately secure for housing such a prisoner.
    Sec. 208. (a) None of the funds appropriated by this Act may be 
used by Federal prisons to purchase cable television services, or to 
rent or purchase audiovisual or electronic media or equipment used 
primarily for recreational purposes.
    (b) Subsection (a) does not preclude the rental, maintenance, or 
purchase of audiovisual or electronic media or equipment for inmate 
training, religious, or educational programs.
    Sec. 209.  None of the funds made available under this title shall 
be obligated or expended for any new or enhanced information technology 
program having total estimated development costs in excess of 
$100,000,000, unless the Deputy Attorney General and the investment 
review board certify to the Committees on Appropriations of the House 
of Representatives and the Senate that the information technology 
program has appropriate program management controls and contractor 
oversight mechanisms in place, and that the program is compatible with 
the enterprise architecture of the Department of Justice.
    Sec. 210.  The notification thresholds and procedures set forth in 
section 505 of this Act shall apply to deviations from the amounts 
designated for specific activities in this Act and in the report 
accompanying this Act, and to any use of deobligated balances of funds 
provided under this title in previous years.
    Sec. 211.  None of the funds appropriated by this Act may be used 
to plan for, begin, continue, finish, process, or approve a public-
private competition under the Office of Management and Budget Circular 
A-76 or any successor administrative regulation, directive, or policy 
for work performed by employees of the Bureau of Prisons or of Federal 
Prison Industries, Incorporated.
    Sec. 212.  Notwithstanding any other provision of law, no funds 
shall be available for the salary, benefits, or expenses of any United 
States Attorney assigned dual or additional responsibilities by the 
Attorney General or his designee that exempt that United States 
Attorney from the residency requirements of section 545 of title 28, 
United States Code.
    Sec. 213.  At the discretion of the Attorney General, and in 
addition to any amounts that otherwise may be available (or authorized 
to be made available) by law, with respect to funds appropriated by 
this title under the headings ``Research, Evaluation and Statistics'', 
``State and Local Law Enforcement Assistance'', and ``Juvenile Justice 
Programs''--
            (1) up to 3 percent of funds made available to the Office 
        of Justice Programs for grant or reimbursement programs may be 
        used by such Office to provide training and technical 
        assistance; and
            (2) up to 2 percent of funds made available for grant or 
        reimbursement programs under such headings, except for amounts 
        appropriated specifically for research, evaluation, or 
        statistical programs administered by the National Institute of 
        Justice and the Bureau of Justice Statistics, shall be 
        transferred to and merged with funds provided to the National 
        Institute of Justice and the Bureau of Justice Statistics, to 
        be used by them for research, evaluation, or statistical 
        purposes, without regard to the authorizations for such grant 
        or reimbursement programs.
    Sec. 214.  Notwithstanding any other provision of law, section 
20109(a) of subtitle A of title II of the Violent Crime Control and Law 
Enforcement Act of 1994 (42 U.S.C. 13709(a)) shall not apply to amounts 
made available by this or any other Act.
    Sec. 215.  None of the funds made available under this Act, other 
than for the national instant criminal background check system 
established under section 103 of the Brady Handgun Violence Prevention 
Act (18 U.S.C. 922 note), may be used by a Federal law enforcement 
officer to facilitate the transfer of an operable firearm to an 
individual if the Federal law enforcement officer knows or suspects 
that the individual is an agent of a drug cartel, unless law 
enforcement personnel of the United States continuously monitor or 
control the firearm at all times.
    Sec. 216. (a) None of the income retained in the Department of 
Justice Working Capital Fund pursuant to title I of Public Law 102-140 
(105 Stat. 784; 28 U.S.C. 527 note) shall be available for obligation 
during fiscal year 2015.
    (b) Not to exceed $30,000,000 of the unobligated balances 
transferred to the capital account of the Department of Justice Working 
Capital Fund pursuant to title I of Public Law 102-140 (105 Stat. 784; 
28 U.S.C. 527 note) shall be available for obligation in fiscal year 
2015, and any use, obligation, transfer or allocation of such funds 
shall be treated as a reprogramming of funds under section 505 of this 
Act.
    (c) Not to exceed $10,000,000 of the excess unobligated balances 
available under section 524(c)(8)(E) of title 28, United States Code, 
shall be available for obligation during fiscal year 2015, and any use, 
obligation, transfer or allocation of such funds shall be treated as a 
reprogramming of funds under section 505 of this Act.
    (d) Of amounts available in the Assets Forfeiture Fund in fiscal 
year 2015, $154,700,000 shall be for payments associated with joint law 
enforcement operations as authorized by section 524(c)(1)(I) of title 
28, United States Code.
    (e) The Attorney General shall submit a spending plan to the 
Committees on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the 
Senate not later than 30 days after the date of enactment of this Act 
detailing the planned distribution of Assets Forfeiture Fund joint law 
enforcement operations funding during fiscal year 2015.
    This title may be cited as the ``Department of Justice 
Appropriations Act, 2015''.

                               TITLE III

                                SCIENCE

                Office of Science and Technology Policy

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Science and Technology 
Policy, in carrying out the purposes of the National Science and 
Technology Policy, Organization, and Priorities Act of 1976 (42 U.S.C. 
6601 et seq.), hire of passenger motor vehicles, and services as 
authorized by section 3109 of title 5, United States Code, not to 
exceed $2,250 for official reception and representation expenses, and 
rental of conference rooms in the District of Columbia, $5,555,000.

             National Aeronautics and Space Administration

                                science

    For necessary expenses, not otherwise provided for, in the conduct 
and support of science research and development activities, including 
research, development, operations, support, and services; maintenance 
and repair, facility planning and design; space flight, spacecraft 
control, and communications activities; program management; personnel 
and related costs, including uniforms or allowances therefor, as 
authorized by sections 5901 and 5902 of title 5, United States Code; 
travel expenses; purchase and hire of passenger motor vehicles; and 
purchase, lease, charter, maintenance, and operation of mission and 
administrative aircraft, $5,193,000,000, to remain available until 
September 30, 2016: Provided, That the formulation and development 
costs (with development cost as defined under section 30104 of title 
51, United States Code) for the James Webb Space Telescope shall not 
exceed $8,000,000,000: Provided further, That should the individual 
identified under subsection (c)(2)(E) of section 30104 of title 51, 
United States Code, as responsible for the James Webb Space Telescope 
determine that the development cost of the program is likely to exceed 
that limitation, the individual shall immediately notify the 
Administrator and the increase shall be treated as if it meets the 30 
percent threshold described in subsection (f) of section 30104: 
Provided further, That $100,000,000 shall be for pre-formulation and/or 
formulation activities for a mission that meets the science goals 
outlined for the Jupiter Europa mission in the most recent planetary 
science decadal survey.

                              aeronautics

    For necessary expenses, not otherwise provided for, in the conduct 
and support of aeronautics research and development activities, 
including research, development, operations, support, and services; 
maintenance and repair, facility planning and design; space flight, 
spacecraft control, and communications activities; program management; 
personnel and related costs, including uniforms or allowances therefor, 
as authorized by sections 5901 and 5902 of title 5, United States Code; 
travel expenses; purchase and hire of passenger motor vehicles; and 
purchase, lease, charter, maintenance, and operation of mission and 
administrative aircraft, $666,000,000, to remain available until 
September 30, 2016.

                            space technology

    For necessary expenses, not otherwise provided for, in the conduct 
and support of space research and technology development activities, 
including research, development, operations, support, and services; 
maintenance and repair, facility planning and design; space flight, 
spacecraft control, and communications activities; program management; 
personnel and related costs, including uniforms or allowances therefor, 
as authorized by sections 5901 and 5902 of title 5, United States Code; 
travel expenses; purchase and hire of passenger motor vehicles; and 
purchase, lease, charter, maintenance, and operation of mission and 
administrative aircraft, $620,000,000 (increased by $7,000,000), to 
remain available until September 30, 2016.

                              exploration

    For necessary expenses, not otherwise provided for, in the conduct 
and support of exploration research and development activities, 
including research, development, operations, support, and services; 
maintenance and repair, facility planning and design; space flight, 
spacecraft control, and communications activities; program management; 
personnel and related costs, including uniforms or allowances therefor, 
as authorized by sections 5901 and 5902 of title 5, United States Code; 
travel expenses; purchase and hire of passenger motor vehicles; and 
purchase, lease, charter, maintenance, and operation of mission and 
administrative aircraft, $4,167,000,000, to remain available until 
September 30, 2016: Provided, That not less than $1,140,000,000 shall 
be for the Orion Multi-Purpose Crew Vehicle: Provided further, That not 
less than $1,915,000,000 shall be for the Space Launch System, which 
shall have a lift capability not less than 130 metric tons and which 
shall have an upper stage and other core elements developed 
simultaneously: Provided further, That of the funds made available for 
the Space Launch System, $1,600,000,000 shall be for launch vehicle 
development and $315,000,000 shall be for exploration ground systems.

                            space operations

    For necessary expenses, not otherwise provided for, in the conduct 
and support of space operations research and development activities, 
including research, development, operations, support, and services; 
maintenance and repair, facility planning and design; space flight, 
spacecraft control, and communications activities, including 
operations, production, and services; program management; personnel and 
related costs, including uniforms or allowances therefor, as authorized 
by sections 5901 and 5902 of title 5, United States Code; travel 
expenses; purchase and hire of passenger motor vehicles; and purchase, 
lease, charter, maintenance, and operation of mission and 
administrative aircraft, $3,885,000,000 (reduced by $7,000,000), to 
remain available until September 30, 2016.

                               education

    For necessary expenses, not otherwise provided for, in the conduct 
and support of aerospace and aeronautical education research and 
development activities, including research, development, operations, 
support, and services; program management; personnel and related costs, 
including uniforms or allowances therefor, as authorized by sections 
5901 and 5902 of title 5, United States Code; travel expenses; purchase 
and hire of passenger motor vehicles; and purchase, lease, charter, 
maintenance, and operation of mission and administrative aircraft, 
$106,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 2016, of which 
$9,000,000 shall be for the Experimental Program to Stimulate 
Competitive Research and $30,000,000 shall be for the National Space 
Grant College program.

                 safety, security and mission services

    For necessary expenses, not otherwise provided for, in the conduct 
and support of science, aeronautics, space technology, exploration, 
space operations and education research and development activities, 
including research, development, operations, support, and services; 
maintenance and repair, facility planning and design; space flight, 
spacecraft control, and communications activities; program management; 
personnel and related costs, including uniforms or allowances therefor, 
as authorized by sections 5901 and 5902 of title 5, United States Code; 
travel expenses; purchase and hire of passenger motor vehicles; not to 
exceed $63,000 for official reception and representation expenses; and 
purchase, lease, charter, maintenance, and operation of mission and 
administrative aircraft, $2,779,000,000, to remain available until 
September 30, 2016.

       construction and environmental compliance and restoration

    For necessary expenses for construction of facilities including 
repair, rehabilitation, revitalization, and modification of facilities, 
construction of new facilities and additions to existing facilities, 
facility planning and design, and restoration, and acquisition or 
condemnation of real property, as authorized by law, and environmental 
compliance and restoration, $446,000,000, to remain available until 
September 30, 2020: Provided, That hereafter, notwithstanding section 
20145(b)(2)(A) of title 51, United States Code, all proceeds from 
leases entered into under that section shall be deposited into this 
account: Provided further, That such proceeds shall be available for a 
period of 5 years to the extent and in amounts as provided in annual 
appropriations Acts: Provided further, That such proceeds referred to 
in the two preceding provisos shall be available for obligation for 
fiscal year 2015 in an amount not to exceed $9,584,100: Provided 
further, That each annual budget request shall include an annual 
estimate of gross receipts and collections and proposed use of all 
funds collected pursuant to section 20145 of title 51, United States 
Code.

                      office of inspector general

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Inspector General in 
carrying out the Inspector General Act of 1978, $34,000,000, of which 
$500,000 shall remain available until September 30, 2016.

                       administrative provisions

                     (including transfer of funds)

    Funds for any announced prize otherwise authorized shall remain 
available, without fiscal year limitation, until the prize is claimed 
or the offer is withdrawn.
    Not to exceed 5 percent of any appropriation made available for the 
current fiscal year for the National Aeronautics and Space 
Administration in this Act may be transferred between such 
appropriations, but no such appropriation, except as otherwise 
specifically provided, shall be increased by more than 10 percent by 
any such transfers. Balances so transferred shall be merged with and 
available for the same purposes and the same time period as the 
appropriations to which transferred. Any transfer pursuant to this 
provision shall be treated as a reprogramming of funds under section 
505 of this Act and shall not be available for obligation except in 
compliance with the procedures set forth in that section.
    The spending plan required by this Act shall be provided by NASA at 
the theme, program, project and activity level. The spending plan, as 
well as any subsequent change of an amount established in that spending 
plan that meets the notification requirements of section 505 of this 
Act, shall be treated as a reprogramming under section 505 of this Act 
and shall not be available for obligation or expenditure except in 
compliance with the procedures set forth in that section.

                          (transfer of funds)

    The unexpired balances of a previous account, for activities for 
which funds are provided in this Act, may be transferred to the new 
account established in this Act that provides such activities. Balances 
so transferred shall be merged with the funds in the newly established 
account, but shall be available under the same terms, conditions and 
period of time as previously appropriated.

                      National Science Foundation

                    research and related activities

    For necessary expenses in carrying out the National Science 
Foundation Act of 1950 (42 U.S.C. 1861 et seq.), and Public Law 86-209 
(42 U.S.C. 1880 et seq.); services as authorized by section 3109 of 
title 5, United States Code; maintenance and operation of aircraft and 
purchase of flight services for research support; acquisition of 
aircraft; and authorized travel; $5,973,645,000 (reduced by 
$15,350,000)(increased by $15,350,000), to remain available until 
September 30, 2016, of which not to exceed $520,000,000 shall remain 
available until expended for polar research and operations support, and 
for reimbursement to other Federal agencies for operational and science 
support and logistical and other related activities for the United 
States Antarctic program: Provided, That receipts for scientific 
support services and materials furnished by the National Research 
Centers and other National Science Foundation supported research 
facilities may be credited to this appropriation.

          major research equipment and facilities construction

    For necessary expenses for the acquisition, construction, 
commissioning, and upgrading of major research equipment, facilities, 
and other such capital assets pursuant to the National Science 
Foundation Act of 1950 (42 U.S.C. 1861 et seq.), including authorized 
travel, $200,760,000, to remain available until expended.

                     education and human resources

    For necessary expenses in carrying out science, mathematics and 
engineering education and human resources programs and activities 
pursuant to the National Science Foundation Act of 1950 (42 U.S.C. 1861 
et seq.), including services as authorized by section 3109 of title 5, 
United States Code, authorized travel, and rental of conference rooms 
in the District of Columbia, $876,000,000, to remain available until 
September 30, 2016.

                 agency operations and award management

    For agency operations and award management necessary in carrying 
out the National Science Foundation Act of 1950 (42 U.S.C. 1861 et 
seq.); services authorized by section 3109 of title 5, United States 
Code; hire of passenger motor vehicles; uniforms or allowances 
therefor, as authorized by sections 5901 and 5902 of title 5, United 
States Code; rental of conference rooms in the District of Columbia; 
and reimbursement of the Department of Homeland Security for security 
guard services; $335,000,000 (reduced by $10,000,000): Provided, That 
not to exceed $8,280 is for official reception and representation 
expenses: Provided further, That contracts may be entered into under 
this heading in fiscal year 2015 for maintenance and operation of 
facilities and for other services to be provided during the next fiscal 
year: Provided further, That of the amount provided for costs 
associated with the acquisition, occupancy, and related costs of new 
headquarters space, not more that $27,370,000 shall remain available 
until expended.

                  office of the national science board

    For necessary expenses (including payment of salaries, authorized 
travel, hire of passenger motor vehicles, the rental of conference 
rooms in the District of Columbia, and the employment of experts and 
consultants under section 3109 of title 5, United States Code) involved 
in carrying out section 4 of the National Science Foundation Act of 
1950 (42 U.S.C. 1863) and Public Law 86-209 (42 U.S.C. 1880 et seq.), 
$4,370,000: Provided, That not to exceed $2,500 shall be available for 
official reception and representation expenses.

                      office of inspector general

    For necessary expenses of the Office of Inspector General as 
authorized by the Inspector General Act of 1978, $14,430,000, of which 
$400,000 shall remain available until September 30, 2016.

                        administrative provision

    Not to exceed 5 percent of any appropriation made available for the 
current fiscal year for the National Science Foundation in this Act may 
be transferred between such appropriations, but no such appropriation 
shall be increased by more than 15 percent by any such transfers. Any 
transfer pursuant to this section shall be treated as a reprogramming 
of funds under section 505 of this Act and shall not be available for 
obligation except in compliance with the procedures set forth in that 
section.
    This title may be cited as the ``Science Appropriations Act, 
2015''.

                                TITLE IV

                            RELATED AGENCIES

                       Commission on Civil Rights

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Commission on Civil Rights, including 
hire of passenger motor vehicles, $9,000,000: Provided, That none of 
the funds appropriated in this paragraph shall be used to employ in 
excess of four full-time individuals under Schedule C of the Excepted 
Service exclusive of one special assistant for each Commissioner: 
Provided further, That none of the funds appropriated in this paragraph 
shall be used to reimburse Commissioners for more than 75 billable 
days, with the exception of the chairperson, who is permitted 125 
billable days: Provided further, That none of the funds appropriated in 
this paragraph shall be used for any activity or expense that is not 
explicitly authorized by section 3 of the Civil Rights Commission Act 
of 1983 (42 U.S.C. 1975a).

                Equal Employment Opportunity Commission

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Equal Employment Opportunity 
Commission as authorized by title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, 
the Age Discrimination in Employment Act of 1967, the Equal Pay Act of 
1963, the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, section 501 of the 
Rehabilitation Act of 1973, the Civil Rights Act of 1991, the Genetic 
Information Non-Discrimination Act (GINA) of 2008 (Public Law 110-233), 
the ADA Amendments Act of 2008 (Public Law 110-325), and the Lilly 
Ledbetter Fair Pay Act of 2009 (Public Law 111-2), including services 
as authorized by section 3109 of title 5, United States Code; hire of 
passenger motor vehicles as authorized by section 1343(b) of title 31, 
United States Code; nonmonetary awards to private citizens; and up to 
$29,500,000 for payments to State and local enforcement agencies for 
authorized services to the Commission, $364,000,000: Provided, That the 
Commission is authorized to make available for official reception and 
representation expenses not to exceed $2,250 from available funds: 
Provided further, That the Chair is authorized to accept and use any 
gift or donation to carry out the work of the Commission.

                     International Trade Commission

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the International Trade Commission, 
including hire of passenger motor vehicles and services as authorized 
by section 3109 of title 5, United States Code, and not to exceed 
$2,250 for official reception and representation expenses, $84,500,000 
(increased by $1,500,000), to remain available until expended.

                       Legal Services Corporation

               payment to the legal services corporation

    For payment to the Legal Services Corporation to carry out the 
purposes of the Legal Services Corporation Act of 1974, $350,000,000, 
of which $319,650,000 is for basic field programs and required 
independent audits; $4,350,000 is for the Office of Inspector General, 
of which such amounts as may be necessary may be used to conduct 
additional audits of recipients; $18,000,000 is for management and 
grants oversight; $4,000,000 is for client self-help and information 
technology; $3,000,000 is for a Pro Bono Innovation Fund; and 
$1,000,000 is for loan repayment assistance: Provided, That the Legal 
Services Corporation may continue to provide locality pay to officers 
and employees at a rate no greater than that provided by the Federal 
Government to Washington, DC-based employees as authorized by section 
5304 of title 5, United States Code, notwithstanding section 1005(d) of 
the Legal Services Corporation Act (42 U.S.C. 2996(d)): Provided 
further, That the authorities provided in section 205 of this Act shall 
be applicable to the Legal Services Corporation: Provided further, 
That, for the purposes of section 505 of this Act, the Legal Services 
Corporation shall be considered an agency of the United States 
Government.

          administrative provision--legal services corporation

    None of the funds appropriated in this Act to the Legal Services 
Corporation shall be expended for any purpose prohibited or limited by, 
or contrary to any of the provisions of, sections 501, 502, 503, 504, 
505, and 506 of Public Law 105-119, and all funds appropriated in this 
Act to the Legal Services Corporation shall be subject to the same 
terms and conditions set forth in such sections, except that all 
references in sections 502 and 503 to 1997 and 1998 shall be deemed to 
refer instead to 2014 and 2015, respectively.

                        Marine Mammal Commission

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Marine Mammal Commission as 
authorized by title II of the Marine Mammal Protection Act of 1972 (16 
U.S.C. 1361 et seq.), $3,250,000.

            Office of the United States Trade Representative

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Office of the United States Trade 
Representative, including the hire of passenger motor vehicles and the 
employment of experts and consultants as authorized by section 3109 of 
title 5, United States Code, $53,500,000, of which $1,000,000 shall 
remain available until expended: Provided, That not to exceed $124,000 
shall be available for official reception and representation expenses.

                        State Justice Institute

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses of the State Justice Institute, as 
authorized by the State Justice Institute Authorization Act of 1984 (42 
U.S.C. 10701 et seq.) $5,121,000, of which $500,000 shall remain 
available until September 30, 2016: Provided, That not to exceed $2,250 
shall be available for official reception and representation expenses: 
Provided further, That, for the purposes of section 505 of this Act, 
the State Justice Institute shall be considered an agency of the United 
States Government.

                                TITLE V

                           GENERAL PROVISIONS

                        (including rescissions)

    Sec. 501.  No part of any appropriation contained in this Act shall 
be used for publicity or propaganda purposes not authorized by the 
Congress, or for contracts to provide training for agency employees to 
engage in such publicity or propaganda purposes.
    Sec. 502.  No part of any appropriation contained in this Act shall 
remain available for obligation beyond the current fiscal year unless 
expressly so provided herein.
    Sec. 503.  The expenditure of any appropriation under this Act for 
any consulting service through procurement contract, pursuant to 
section 3109 of title 5, United States Code, shall be limited to those 
contracts where such expenditures are a matter of public record and 
available for public inspection, except where otherwise provided under 
existing law, or under existing Executive order issued pursuant to 
existing law.
    Sec. 504.  If any provision of this Act or the application of such 
provision to any person or circumstances shall be held invalid, the 
remainder of the Act and the application of each provision to persons 
or circumstances other than those as to which it is held invalid shall 
not be affected thereby.
    Sec. 505.  None of the funds provided under this Act, or provided 
under previous appropriations Acts to the agencies funded by this Act 
that remain available for obligation or expenditure in fiscal year 
2015, or provided from any accounts in the Treasury of the United 
States derived by the collection of fees available to the agencies 
funded by this Act, shall be available for obligation or expenditure 
through a reprogramming of funds that: (1) creates or initiates a new 
program, project or activity; (2) eliminates a program, project or 
activity; (3) increases funds or personnel by any means for any project 
or activity for which funds have been denied or restricted; (4) 
relocates an office or employees; (5) reorganizes or renames offices, 
programs or activities; (6) contracts out or privatizes any functions 
or activities presently performed by Federal employees; (7) augments 
existing programs, projects or activities in excess of $500,000 or 10 
percent, whichever is less, or reduces by 10 percent funding for any 
program, project or activity, or numbers of personnel by 10 percent; or 
(8) results from any general savings, including savings from a 
reduction in personnel, which would result in a change in existing 
programs, projects or activities as approved by Congress; unless the 
House and Senate Committees on Appropriations are notified 15 days in 
advance of such reprogramming of funds by agencies (excluding agencies 
of the Department of Justice) funded by this Act and 45 days in advance 
of such reprogramming of funds by agencies of the Department of Justice 
funded by this Act.
    Sec. 506. (a) If it has been finally determined by a court or 
Federal agency that any person intentionally affixed a label bearing a 
``Made in America'' inscription, or any inscription with the same 
meaning, to any product sold in or shipped to the United States that is 
not made in the United States, the person shall be ineligible to 
receive any contract or subcontract made with funds made available in 
this Act, pursuant to the debarment, suspension, and ineligibility 
procedures described in sections 9.400 through 9.409 of title 48, Code 
of Federal Regulations.
    (b)(1) To the extent practicable, with respect to authorized 
purchases of promotional items, funds made available by this Act shall 
be used to purchase items that are manufactured, produced, or assembled 
in the United States, its territories or possessions.
    (2) The term ``promotional items'' has the meaning given the term 
in OMB Circular A-87, Attachment B, Item (1)(f)(3).
    Sec. 507. (a) The Departments of Commerce and Justice, the National 
Science Foundation, and the National Aeronautics and Space 
Administration shall provide to the Committees on Appropriations of the 
House of Representatives and the Senate a quarterly report on the 
status of balances of appropriations at the account level. For 
unobligated, uncommitted balances and unobligated, committed balances 
the quarterly reports shall separately identify the amounts 
attributable to each source year of appropriation from which the 
balances were derived. For balances that are obligated, but unexpended, 
the quarterly reports shall separately identify amounts by the year of 
obligation.
    (b) The report described in subsection (a) shall be submitted 
within 30 days of the end of each quarter.
    (c) If a department or agency is unable to fulfill any aspect of a 
reporting requirement described in subsection (a) due to a limitation 
of a current accounting system, the department or agency shall fulfill 
such aspect to the maximum extent practicable under such accounting 
system and shall identify and describe in each quarterly report the 
extent to which such aspect is not fulfilled.
    Sec. 508.  Any costs incurred by a department or agency funded 
under this Act resulting from, or to prevent, personnel actions taken 
in response to funding reductions included in this Act shall be 
absorbed within the total budgetary resources available to such 
department or agency: Provided, That the authority to transfer funds 
between appropriations accounts as may be necessary to carry out this 
section is provided in addition to authorities included elsewhere in 
this Act: Provided further, That use of funds to carry out this section 
shall be treated as a reprogramming of funds under section 505 of this 
Act and shall not be available for obligation or expenditure except in 
compliance with the procedures set forth in that section: Provided 
further, That for the Department of Commerce, this section shall also 
apply to actions taken for the care and protection of loan collateral 
or grant property.
    Sec. 509.  None of the funds provided by this Act shall be 
available to promote the sale or export of tobacco or tobacco products, 
or to seek the reduction or removal by any foreign country of 
restrictions on the marketing of tobacco or tobacco products, except 
for restrictions which are not applied equally to all tobacco or 
tobacco products of the same type.
    Sec. 510.  None of the funds made available in this Act may be used 
to pay the salaries and expenses of personnel of the Department of 
Justice to obligate more than $770,000,000 during fiscal year 2015 from 
the fund established by section 1402 of Public Law 98-473 (42 U.S.C. 
10601).
    Sec. 511.  None of the funds made available to the Department of 
Justice in this Act may be used to discriminate against or denigrate 
the religious or moral beliefs of students who participate in programs 
for which financial assistance is provided from those funds, or of the 
parents or legal guardians of such students.
    Sec. 512.  None of the funds made available in this Act may be 
transferred to any department, agency, or instrumentality of the United 
States Government, except pursuant to a transfer made by, or transfer 
authority provided in, this Act or any other appropriations Act.
    Sec. 513.  Any funds provided in this Act used to implement E-
Government Initiatives shall be subject to the procedures set forth in 
section 505 of this Act.
    Sec. 514. (a) The Inspectors General of the Department of Commerce, 
the Department of Justice, the National Aeronautics and Space 
Administration, the National Science Foundation, and the Legal Services 
Corporation shall conduct audits, pursuant to the Inspector General Act 
(5 U.S.C. App.), of grants or contracts for which funds are 
appropriated by this Act, and shall submit reports to Congress on the 
progress of such audits, which may include preliminary findings and a 
description of areas of particular interest, within 180 days after 
initiating such an audit and every 180 days thereafter until any such 
audit is completed.
    (b) Within 60 days after the date on which an audit described in 
subsection (a) by an Inspector General is completed, the Secretary, 
Attorney General, Administrator, Director, or President, as 
appropriate, shall make the results of the audit available to the 
public on the Internet website maintained by the Department, 
Administration, Foundation, or Corporation, respectively. The results 
shall be made available in redacted form to exclude--
            (1) any matter described in section 552(b) of title 5, 
        United States Code; and
            (2) sensitive personal information for any individual, the 
        public access to which could be used to commit identity theft 
        or for other inappropriate or unlawful purposes.
    (c) A grant or contract funded by amounts appropriated by this Act 
may not be used for the purpose of defraying the costs of a banquet or 
conference that is not directly and programmatically related to the 
purpose for which the grant or contract was awarded, such as a banquet 
or conference held in connection with planning, training, assessment, 
review, or other routine purposes related to a project funded by the 
grant or contract.
    (d) Any person awarded a grant or contract funded by amounts 
appropriated by this Act shall submit a statement to the Secretary of 
Commerce, the Attorney General, the Administrator, Director, or 
President, as appropriate, certifying that no funds derived from the 
grant or contract will be made available through a subcontract or in 
any other manner to another person who has a financial interest in the 
person awarded the grant or contract.
    (e) The provisions of the preceding subsections of this section 
shall take effect 30 days after the date on which the Director of the 
Office of Management and Budget, in consultation with the Director of 
the Office of Government Ethics, determines that a uniform set of rules 
and requirements, substantially similar to the requirements in such 
subsections, consistently apply under the executive branch ethics 
program to all Federal departments, agencies, and entities.
    Sec. 515. (a) None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
available under this Act may be used by the Departments of Commerce and 
Justice, the National Aeronautics and Space Administration, or the 
National Science Foundation to acquire a high-impact or moderate-impact 
information system, as defined for security categorization in the 
National Institute of Standards and Technology's (NIST) Federal 
Information Processing Standard Publication 199, ``Standards for 
Security Categorization of Federal Information and Information 
Systems'' unless the agency has--
            (1) reviewed the supply chain risk for the information 
        systems against criteria developed by NIST to inform 
        acquisition decisions for high-impact and moderate-impact 
        information systems within the Federal Government;
            (2) reviewed the supply chain risk from the presumptive 
        awardee against available and relevant threat information 
        provided by the Federal Bureau of Investigation and other 
        appropriate agencies; and
            (3) in consultation with the Federal Bureau of 
        Investigation or other appropriate Federal entity, conducted an 
        assessment of any risk of cyber-espionage or sabotage 
        associated with the acquisition of such system, including any 
        risk associated with such system being produced, manufactured, 
        or assembled by one or more entities identified by the United 
        States Government as posing a cyber threat, including but not 
        limited to, those that may be owned, directed, or subsidized by 
        the People's Republic of China.
    (b) None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made available 
under this Act may be used to acquire a high-impact or moderate-impact 
information system reviewed and assessed under subsection (a) unless 
the head of the assessing entity described in subsection (a) has--
            (1) developed, in consultation with NIST and supply chain 
        risk management experts, a mitigation strategy for any 
        identified risks;
            (2) determined that the acquisition of such system is in 
        the national interest of the United States; and
            (3) reported that determination to the Committees on 
        Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the Senate.
    Sec. 516.  None of the funds made available in this Act shall be 
used in any way whatsoever to support or justify the use of torture by 
any official or contract employee of the United States Government.
    Sec. 517. (a) Notwithstanding any other provision of law or treaty, 
in the current fiscal year and any fiscal year thereafter, none of the 
funds appropriated or otherwise made available under this Act or any 
other Act may be expended or obligated by a department, agency, or 
instrumentality of the United States to pay administrative expenses or 
to compensate an officer or employee of the United States in connection 
with requiring an export license for the export to Canada of 
components, parts, accessories or attachments for firearms listed in 
Category I, section 121.1 of title 22, Code of Federal Regulations 
(International Trafficking in Arms Regulations (ITAR), part 121, as it 
existed on April 1, 2005) with a total value not exceeding $500 
wholesale in any transaction, provided that the conditions of 
subsection (b) of this section are met by the exporting party for such 
articles.
    (b) The foregoing exemption from obtaining an export license--
            (1) does not exempt an exporter from filing any Shipper's 
        Export Declaration or notification letter required by law, or 
        from being otherwise eligible under the laws of the United 
        States to possess, ship, transport, or export the articles 
        enumerated in subsection (a); and
            (2) does not permit the export without a license of--
                    (A) fully automatic firearms and components and 
                parts for such firearms, other than for end use by the 
                Federal Government, or a Provincial or Municipal 
                Government of Canada;
                    (B) barrels, cylinders, receivers (frames) or 
                complete breech mechanisms for any firearm listed in 
                Category I, other than for end use by the Federal 
                Government, or a Provincial or Municipal Government of 
                Canada; or
                    (C) articles for export from Canada to another 
                foreign destination.
    (c) In accordance with this section, the District Directors of 
Customs and postmasters shall permit the permanent or temporary export 
without a license of any unclassified articles specified in subsection 
(a) to Canada for end use in Canada or return to the United States, or 
temporary import of Canadian-origin items from Canada for end use in 
the United States or return to Canada for a Canadian citizen.
    (d) The President may require export licenses under this section on 
a temporary basis if the President determines, upon publication first 
in the Federal Register, that the Government of Canada has implemented 
or maintained inadequate import controls for the articles specified in 
subsection (a), such that a significant diversion of such articles has 
and continues to take place for use in international terrorism or in 
the escalation of a conflict in another nation. The President shall 
terminate the requirements of a license when reasons for the temporary 
requirements have ceased.
    Sec. 518.  Notwithstanding any other provision of law, in the 
current fiscal year and any fiscal year thereafter, no department, 
agency, or instrumentality of the United States receiving appropriated 
funds under this Act or any other Act shall obligate or expend in any 
way such funds to pay administrative expenses or the compensation of 
any officer or employee of the United States to deny any application 
submitted pursuant to 22 U.S.C. 2778(b)(1)(B) and qualified pursuant to 
27 CFR section 478.112 or.113, for a permit to import United States 
origin ``curios or relics'' firearms, parts, or ammunition.
    Sec. 519.  None of the funds made available in this Act may be used 
to include in any new bilateral or multilateral trade agreement the 
text of--
            (1) paragraph 2 of article 16.7 of the United States-
        Singapore Free Trade Agreement;
            (2) paragraph 4 of article 17.9 of the United States-
        Australia Free Trade Agreement; or
            (3) paragraph 4 of article 15.9 of the United States-
        Morocco Free Trade Agreement.
    Sec. 520.  None of the funds made available in this Act may be used 
to authorize or issue a national security letter in contravention of 
any of the following laws authorizing the Federal Bureau of 
Investigation to issue national security letters: The Right to 
Financial Privacy Act; The Electronic Communications Privacy Act; The 
Fair Credit Reporting Act; The National Security Act of 1947; USA 
PATRIOT Act; and the laws amended by these Acts.
    Sec. 521.  If at any time during any quarter, the program manager 
of a project within the jurisdiction of the Departments of Commerce or 
Justice, the National Aeronautics and Space Administration, or the 
National Science Foundation totaling more than $75,000,000 has 
reasonable cause to believe that the total program cost has increased 
by 10 percent or more, the program manager shall immediately inform the 
respective Secretary, Administrator, or Director. The Secretary, 
Administrator, or Director shall notify the House and Senate Committees 
on Appropriations within 30 days in writing of such increase, and shall 
include in such notice: the date on which such determination was made; 
a statement of the reasons for such increases; the action taken and 
proposed to be taken to control future cost growth of the project; 
changes made in the performance or schedule milestones and the degree 
to which such changes have contributed to the increase in total program 
costs or procurement costs; new estimates of the total project or 
procurement costs; and a statement validating that the project's 
management structure is adequate to control total project or 
procurement costs.
    Sec. 522.  Funds appropriated by this Act, or made available by the 
transfer of funds in this Act, for intelligence or intelligence related 
activities are deemed to be specifically authorized by the Congress for 
purposes of section 504 of the National Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 
414) during fiscal year 2015 until the enactment of the Intelligence 
Authorization Act for fiscal year 2015.
    Sec. 523.  None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
available by this Act may be used to enter into a contract in an amount 
greater than $5,000,000 or to award a grant in excess of such amount 
unless the prospective contractor or grantee certifies in writing to 
the agency awarding the contract or grant that, to the best of its 
knowledge and belief, the contractor or grantee has filed all Federal 
tax returns required during the three years preceding the 
certification, has not been convicted of a criminal offense under the 
Internal Revenue Code of 1986, and has not, more than 90 days prior to 
certification, been notified of any unpaid Federal tax assessment for 
which the liability remains unsatisfied, unless the assessment is the 
subject of an installment agreement or offer in compromise that has 
been approved by the Internal Revenue Service and is not in default, or 
the assessment is the subject of a non-frivolous administrative or 
judicial proceeding.

                             (rescissions)

    Sec. 524. (a) Of the unobligated balances available for 
``Department of Commerce, Departmental Management, Franchise Fund'', 
$2,906,000 is hereby rescinded.
    (b) Of the unobligated balances available to the Department of 
Justice, the following funds are hereby rescinded, not later than 
September 30, 2015, from the following accounts in the specified 
amounts--
            (1) ``Working Capital Fund'', $54,000,000;
            (2) ``Legal Activities, Assets Forfeiture Fund'', 
        $193,000,000;
            (3) ``United States Marshals Service, Federal Prisoner 
        Detention'', $122,000,000;
            (4) ``State and Local Law Enforcement Activities, Office on 
        Violence Against Women, Violence Against Women Prevention and 
        Prosecution Programs'', $12,200,000;
            (5) ``State and Local Law Enforcement Activities, Office of 
        Justice Programs'', $59,000,000; and
            (6) ``State and Local Law Enforcement Activities, Community 
        Oriented Policing Services'', $26,000,000.
    (c) The Department of Justice shall submit to the Committees on 
Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the Senate a report 
no later than September 1, 2015, specifying the amount of each 
rescission made pursuant to subsection (b).
    Sec. 525.  None of the funds made available in this Act may be used 
to purchase first class or premium airline travel in contravention of 
sections 301-10.122 through 301-10.124 of title 41 of the Code of 
Federal Regulations.
    Sec. 526.  None of the funds made available in this Act may be used 
to send or otherwise pay for the attendance of more than 50 employees 
from a Federal department or agency at any single conference occurring 
outside the United States unless such conference is a law enforcement 
training or operational conference for law enforcement personnel and 
the majority of Federal employees in attendance are law enforcement 
personnel stationed outside the United States.
    Sec. 527.  None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
available in this Act may be used in a manner that is inconsistent with 
the principal negotiating objective of the United States with respect 
to trade remedy laws to preserve the ability of the United States--
            (1) to enforce vigorously its trade laws, including 
        antidumping, countervailing duty, and safeguard laws;
            (2) to avoid agreements that--
                    (A) lessen the effectiveness of domestic and 
                international disciplines on unfair trade, especially 
                dumping and subsidies; or
                    (B) lessen the effectiveness of domestic and 
                international safeguard provisions, in order to ensure 
                that United States workers, agricultural producers, and 
                firms can compete fully on fair terms and enjoy the 
                benefits of reciprocal trade concessions; and
            (3) to address and remedy market distortions that lead to 
        dumping and subsidization, including overcapacity, 
        cartelization, and market-access barriers.
    Sec. 528.  None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
available in this or any other Act may be used to transfer, release, or 
assist in the transfer or release to or within the United States, its 
territories, or possessions Khalid Sheikh Mohammed or any other 
detainee who--
            (1) is not a United States citizen or a member of the Armed 
        Forces of the United States; and
            (2) is or was held on or after June 24, 2009, at the United 
        States Naval Station, Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, by the Department 
        of Defense.
    Sec. 529. (a) None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
available in this or any other Act may be used to construct, acquire, 
or modify any facility in the United States, its territories, or 
possessions to house any individual described in subsection (c) for the 
purposes of detention or imprisonment in the custody or under the 
effective control of the Department of Defense.
    (b) The prohibition in subsection (a) shall not apply to any 
modification of facilities at United States Naval Station, Guantanamo 
Bay, Cuba.
    (c) An individual described in this subsection is any individual 
who, as of June 24, 2009, is located at United States Naval Station, 
Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, and who--
            (1) is not a citizen of the United States or a member of 
        the Armed Forces of the United States; and
            (2) is--
                    (A) in the custody or under the effective control 
                of the Department of Defense; or
                    (B) otherwise under detention at United States 
                Naval Station, Guantanamo Bay, Cuba.
    Sec. 530.  To the extent practicable, funds made available in this 
Act should be used to purchase light bulbs that are ``Energy Star'' 
qualified or have the ``Federal Energy Management Program'' 
designation.
    Sec. 531.  The Director of the Office of Management and Budget 
shall instruct any department, agency, or instrumentality of the United 
States receiving funds appropriated under this Act to track undisbursed 
balances in expired grant accounts and include in its annual 
performance plan and performance and accountability reports the 
following:
            (1) Details on future action the department, agency, or 
        instrumentality will take to resolve undisbursed balances in 
        expired grant accounts.
            (2) The method that the department, agency, or 
        instrumentality uses to track undisbursed balances in expired 
        grant accounts.
            (3) Identification of undisbursed balances in expired grant 
        accounts that may be returned to the Treasury of the United 
        States.
            (4) In the preceding 3 fiscal years, details on the total 
        number of expired grant accounts with undisbursed balances (on 
        the first day of each fiscal year) for the department, agency, 
        or instrumentality and the total finances that have not been 
        obligated to a specific project remaining in the accounts.
    Sec. 532. (a) None of the funds made available by this Act may be 
used for the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) or 
the Office of Science and Technology Policy (OSTP) to develop, design, 
plan, promulgate, implement, or execute a bilateral policy, program, 
order, or contract of any kind to participate, collaborate, or 
coordinate bilaterally in any way with China or any Chinese-owned 
company unless such activities are specifically authorized by a law 
enacted after the date of enactment of this Act.
    (b) None of the funds made available by this Act may be used to 
effectuate the hosting of official Chinese visitors at facilities 
belonging to or utilized by NASA.
    (c) The limitations described in subsections (a) and (b) shall not 
apply to activities which NASA or OSTP has certified--
            (1) pose no risk of resulting in the transfer of 
        technology, data, or other information with national security 
        or economic security implications to China or a Chinese-owned 
        company; and
            (2) will not involve knowing interactions with officials 
        who have been determined by the United States to have direct 
        involvement with violations of human rights.
    (d) Any certification made under subsection (c) shall be submitted 
to the Committees on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and 
the Senate no later than 30 days prior to the activity in question and 
shall include a description of the purpose of the activity, its agenda, 
its major participants, and its location and timing.
    Sec. 533.  None of the funds made available by this Act may be used 
to pay the salaries or expenses of personnel to deny, or fail to act 
on, an application for the importation of any model of shotgun if--
            (1) all other requirements of law with respect to the 
        proposed importation are met; and
            (2) no application for the importation of such model of 
        shotgun, in the same configuration, had been denied by the 
        Attorney General prior to January 1, 2011, on the basis that 
        the shotgun was not particularly suitable for or readily 
        adaptable to sporting purposes.
    Sec. 534. (a) None of the funds made available in this Act may be 
used to maintain or establish a computer network unless such network 
blocks the viewing, downloading, and exchanging of pornography.
    (b) Nothing in subsection (a) shall limit the use of funds 
necessary for any Federal, State, tribal, or local law enforcement 
agency or any other entity carrying out criminal investigations, 
prosecution, or adjudication activities.
    Sec. 535.  The Departments of Commerce and Justice, the National 
Aeronautics and Space Administration, and the National Science 
Foundation shall submit spending plans, signed by the respective 
department or agency head, to the Committees on Appropriations of the 
House of Representatives and the Senate within 60 days after the date 
of enactment of this Act.
    Sec. 536.  None of the funds made available by this Act may be used 
to enter into a contract, memorandum of understanding, or cooperative 
agreement with, make a grant to, or provide a loan or loan guarantee 
to, any corporation that was convicted of a felony criminal violation 
under any Federal law within the preceding 24 months, where the 
awarding agency is aware of the conviction, unless the agency has 
considered suspension or debarment of the corporation and has made a 
determination that this further action is not necessary to protect the 
interests of the Government.
    Sec. 537.  None of the funds made available by this Act may be used 
to enter into a contract, memorandum of understanding, or cooperative 
agreement with, make a grant to, or provide a loan or loan guarantee 
to, any corporation that has any unpaid Federal tax liability that has 
been assessed, for which all judicial and administrative remedies have 
been exhausted or have lapsed, and that is not being paid in a timely 
manner pursuant to an agreement with the authority responsible for 
collecting the tax liability, where the awarding agency is aware of the 
unpaid tax liability, unless the agency has considered suspension or 
debarment of the corporation and has made a determination that this 
further action is not necessary to protect the interests of the 
Government.
    Sec. 538.  None of the funds made available by this Act may be 
obligated or expended to implement the Arms Trade Treaty until the 
Senate approves a resolution of ratification for the Treaty.
    Sec. 539.  None of the funds made available by this Act may be used 
to require a person licensed under section 923 of title 18, United 
States Code, to report information to the Department of Justice 
regarding the sale of multiple rifles or shotguns to the same person.

                       spending reduction account

    Sec. 540.  The amount by which the applicable allocation of new 
budget authority made by the Committee on Appropriations of the House 
of Representatives under section 302(b) of the Congressional Budget Act 
of 1974 exceeds the amount of proposed new budget authority is $0 
(increased by $866,000).
    Sec. 541.  None of the funds made available by this Act under the 
heading ``Pacific Coastal Salmon Recovery'' may be used for grant 
guidelines or requirements to establish minimum riparian buffers.
    Sec. 542.  None of the funds made available by this Act may be used 
to lease or purchase new light duty vehicles for any executive fleet, 
or for an agency's fleet inventory, except in accordance with 
Presidential Memorandum--Federal Fleet Performance, dated May 24, 2011.
    Sec. 543.  None of the funds made available by this Act may be used 
to enter into a contract with any offeror or any of its principals if 
the offeror certifies, as required by Federal Acquisition Regulation, 
that the offeror or any of its principals--
            (1) within a three-year period preceding this offer has 
        been convicted of or had a civil judgment rendered against it 
        for: commission of fraud or a criminal offense in connection 
        with obtaining, attempting to obtain, or performing a public 
        (Federal, State, or local) contract or subcontract; violation 
        of Federal or State antitrust statutes relating to the 
        submission of offers; or commission of embezzlement, theft, 
        forgery, bribery, falsification or destruction of records, 
        making false statements, tax evasion, violating Federal 
        criminal tax laws, or receiving stolen property;
            (2) are presently indicted for, or otherwise criminally or 
        civilly charged by a governmental entity with, commission of 
        any of the offenses enumerated above in paragraph (1); or
            (3) within a three-year period preceding this offer, has 
        been notified of any delinquent Federal taxes in an amount that 
        exceeds $3,000 for which the liability remains unsatisfied.
    Sec. 544.  None of the funds made available by this Act may be used 
to implement Executive Order No. 13547 (75 Fed. Reg. 43023, relating to 
the stewardship of oceans, coasts, and the Great Lakes), including the 
National Ocean Policy developed under such Executive order.
    Sec. 545.  None of the funds made available in this Act may be used 
to enforce section 221 of title 13, United States Code, with respect to 
the American Community Survey.
    Sec. 546.  None of the funds made available by this Act for the 
``DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE--administrative review and appeals'' may be 
used in contravention of sections 509 and 510 of title 28, United 
States Code.
    Sec. 547.  None of the funds made available by this Act may be used 
to assess or collect the fee established by section 660.115 of title 
50, Code of Federal Regulations.
    Sec. 548.  None of the funds made available in this Act may be used 
in contravention of any of the following:
            (1) The fifth and 14th amendments to the Constitution of 
        the United States.
            (2) Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 (relating to 
        nondiscrimination in federally assisted programs).
            (3) Section 809(c)(1) of the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe 
        Streets Act of 1968 (relating to prohibition of 
        discrimination).
            (4) Section 210401(a) of the Violent Crime and Law 
        Enforcement Act of 1994 (relating to unlawful police pattern or 
        practice).
    Sec. 549.  None of the funds made available by this Act may be used 
for the National Aeronautics and Space Administration's Advanced Food 
Technology Project.
    Sec. 550.  None of the funds made available in this Act may be used 
for a loan guarantee for Innovative Technologies in Manufacturing under 
the heading ``Economic Development Administration, Economic Development 
Assistance Programs''.
    Sec. 551.  None of the funds made available by this Act may be used 
to negotiate an agreement that includes a waiver of the ``Buy American 
Act''.
    Sec. 552.  None of the funds made available to the National Science 
Foundation by this Act may be used to examine climate effects on tea 
quality and socioeconomic responses under award number 1313775-CNH.
    Sec. 553.  None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
available by this Act may be used to design, implement, administer, or 
carry out the U.S. Global Climate Research Program National Climate 
Assessment, the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change's Fifth 
Assessment Report, the United Nation's Agenda 21 sustainable 
development plan, or the May 2013 Technical Update of the Social Cost 
of Carbon for Regulatory Impact Analysis Under Executive Order No. 
12866.
    Sec. 554.  None of the funds made available in this Act may be used 
to carry out Operation Choke Point.
    Sec. 555.  None of the funds made available by this Act may be used 
to provide assistance to a State, or political subdivision of a State, 
that has in effect any law, policy, or procedure in contravention of 
immigration laws (as defined in section 101(a)(17) of the Immigration 
and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1101(a)(17))).
    Sec. 556.  None of the funds made available in this Act may be used 
for the Investigative and Public Affairs Unit of the Federal Bureau of 
Investigation except for the Ten Most Wanted Fugitives, the Most Wanted 
Terrorists, and missing children programs.
    Sec. 557.  None of the funds made available in this Act to the 
Department of Justice may be used to prevent a State from implementing 
its own State laws that authorize the use, distribution, possession, or 
cultivation of industrial hemp, as defined in section 7606 of the 
Agricultural Act of 2014 (Public Law 113-79).
    Sec. 558.  None of the funds made available in this Act to the 
Department of Justice may be used, with respect to the States of 
Alabama, Alaska, Arizona, California, Colorado, Connecticut, Delaware, 
District of Columbia, Florida, Hawaii, Illinois, Iowa, Kentucky, Maine, 
Maryland, Massachusetts, Michigan, Minnesota, Mississippi, Missouri, 
Montana, Nevada, New Hampshire, New Jersey, New Mexico, Oregon, Rhode 
Island, South Carolina, Tennessee, Utah, Vermont, Washington, and 
Wisconsin, to prevent such States from implementing their own State 
laws that authorize the use, distribution, possession, or cultivation 
of medical marijuana.
    Sec. 559.  None of the funds made available by this Act may be used 
to transfer or temporarily assign employees to the Office of the Pardon 
Attorney for the purpose of screening clemency applications.
    Sec. 560.  None of the funds made available by this Act may be used 
in contravention of section 7606 (``Legitimacy of Industrial Hemp 
Research'') of the Agricultural Act of 2014 (Public Law 113-79) by the 
Department of Justice or the Drug Enforcement Administration.
    Sec. 561.  None of the funds made available by this Act may be used 
to compel a journalist or reporter to testify about information or 
sources that the journalist or reporter states in a motion to quash the 
subpoena that he has obtained as a journalist or reporter and that he 
regards as confidential.
    Sec. 562.  None of the funds made available by this Act may be used 
to relinquish the responsibility of the National Telecommunications and 
Information Administration with respect to Internet domain name system 
functions, including responsibility with respect to the authoritative 
root zone file and the Internet Assigned Numbers Authority functions.
    Sec. 563.  None of the funds made available in this Act may be used 
by the Department of Justice to enforce the Fair Housing Act in a 
manner that relies upon an allegation of liability under 24 CFR 
100.500.
    Sec. 564.  None of the funds made available by this Act under the 
heading ``Department of Justice--Office of Justice Programs--State and 
Local Law Enforcement Assistance'' may be used in contravention of 
section 642(a) of the Illegal Immigration Reform and Immigrant 
Responsibility Act of 1996 (8 U.S.C. 1373(a)).
    Sec. 565.  None of the funds made available by this Act may be used 
to negotiate or enter into a trade agreement that establishes a limit 
on greenhouse gas emissions. The limitation described in this section 
shall not apply in the case of the administration of a tax or tariff.
    This Act may be cited as the ``Commerce, Justice, Science, and 
Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2015''.

            Passed the House of Representatives May 30 (legislative day 
      May 29), 2014.

            Attest:

                                                 KAREN L. HAAS,

                                                                 Clerk.
                                                       Calendar No. 428

113th CONGRESS

  2d Session

                               H. R. 4660

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 AN ACT

  Making appropriations for the Departments of Commerce and Justice, 
Science, and Related Agencies for the fiscal year ending September 30, 
                     2015, and for other purposes.

_______________________________________________________________________

                             June 10, 2014

                 Read twice and placed on the calendar
