
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[S. 1292 Placed on Calendar Senate (PCS)]

                                                       Calendar No. 135
113th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                S. 1292

 To prohibit the funding of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care 
                                  Act.


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                             July 11, 2013

 Mr. Cruz (for himself, Mr. Inhofe, Mr. Risch, Mr. Lee, Mr. Paul, Mr. 
Blunt, Mr. Barrasso, Mr. Rubio, Mr. Isakson, Mr. Heller, Mr. Burr, Mr. 
Toomey, Mr. Cornyn, Mr. McConnell, Mr. Enzi, Mr. Wicker, Mrs. Fischer, 
  Mr. Moran, Mr. Vitter, Mr. Alexander, Mr. Grassley, Mr. Scott, Mr. 
Roberts, Mr. Chambliss, and Mr. Graham) introduced the following bill; 
                     which was read the first time

                July 16 (legislative day, July 15), 2013

             Read the second time and placed on the calendar

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
 To prohibit the funding of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care 
                                  Act.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Defund Obamacare Act of 2013''.

SEC. 2. PROHIBITION ON FUNDING.

    (a) In General.--Notwithstanding any other provision of law, no 
Federal funds shall be made available to carry out any provisions of 
the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (Public Law 111-148) or 
title I and subtitle B of title II of the Health Care and Education 
Reconciliation Act of 2010 (Public Law 111-152), or of the amendments 
made by either such Act.
    (b) Limitation.--No entitlement to benefits under any provision of 
the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (Public Law 111-148) or 
title I and subtitle B of title II of the Health Care and Education 
Reconciliation Act of 2010 (Public Law 111-152), or the amendments made 
by either such Act, shall remain in effect on and after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, nor shall any payment be awarded, owed, or made 
to any State, District, or territory under any such provision.
    (c) Unobligated Balances.--Notwithstanding any other provision of 
law, all unobligated balances available under the provisions of law 
referred to in subsection (a) are hereby rescinded.
                                                       Calendar No. 135

113th CONGRESS

  1st Session

                                S. 1292

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL

 To prohibit the funding of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care 
                                  Act.

_______________________________________________________________________

                July 16 (legislative day, July 15), 2013

            Read the second time and placed on the calendar
