
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 2250 Introduced in House (IH)]

113th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                H. R. 2250

To require the head of each executive agency to submit a report on the 
implementation of Government Accountability Office reports on reducing 
   duplication, achieving savings, and enhancing revenue within the 
                          Federal Government.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                              June 4, 2013

 Mr. Owens (for himself, Mr. Renacci, and Mrs. Bustos) introduced the 
 following bill; which was referred to the Committee on Oversight and 
  Government Reform, and in addition to the Committee on Rules, for a 
 period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
consideration of such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the 
                          committee concerned

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
To require the head of each executive agency to submit a report on the 
implementation of Government Accountability Office reports on reducing 
   duplication, achieving savings, and enhancing revenue within the 
                          Federal Government.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Spending Reduction Act''.

SEC. 2. REQUIREMENT FOR AGENCY REPORTS ON REDUCING DUPLICATION, 
              ACHIEVING SAVINGS, AND ENHANCING REVENUE.

    (a) Report Requirement.--Not later than 90 days after the date of 
the enactment of this Act, the head of each executive agency shall 
submit to the President and Congress a report on the implementation of 
recommendations made by the following reports of the Government 
Accountability Office:
            (1) The March 2011 Government Accountability Office report 
        to Congress titled ``Opportunities to Reduce Potential 
        Duplication in Government Programs, Save Tax Dollars, and 
        Enhance Revenue'' (GAO-11-318SP).
            (2) The February 2012 Government Accountability Office 
        report to Congress titled ``Opportunities to Reduce 
        Duplication, Overlap and Fragmentation, Achieve Savings, and 
        Enhance Revenue'' (GAO-12-342SP).
            (3) The April 2013 Government Accountability Office report 
        to Congress titled ``Actions Needed to Reduce Fragmentation, 
        Overlap, and Duplication and Achieve Other Financial Benefits'' 
        (GAO-13-279SP).
    (b) Matters Covered in Reports.--Each report required by subsection 
(a) shall include the following:
            (1) A discussion by the head of the executive agency of 
        matters on which the agency agrees, disagrees, or partially 
        agrees with the Government Accountability Office, and 
        recommendations by the head of the agency for actions that 
        should be taken in the agency as a result of the reports 
        described in subsection (a).
            (2) An opinion by the Comptroller General of the United 
        States on whether each such recommendation by the head of the 
        executive agency under paragraph (1) is consistent with the 
        intent of the Government Accountability Office reports 
        described in subsection (a).
            (3) A proposal for legislative changes, if any, necessary 
        to implement the recommendations by the head of the executive 
        agency under paragraph (1).
            (4) A statement of the annual impact on costs to the 
        Federal Government, including cost savings, expected to occur 
        as a result of the implementation of such recommendations.
            (5) Such other information as the head of the executive 
        agency determines appropriate.

SEC. 3. IMPLEMENTATION.

    (a) Implementation.--Not later than 150 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the head of each executive agency shall begin to 
implement the recommendations submitted in the report by the head of 
that agency under section 2, in order to eliminate, consolidate, 
streamline, or better coordinate Government programs and agencies with 
duplicative, overlapping, or fragmented missions identified in the 
Government Accountability Office reports described in section 2(a).
    (b) Congressional Disapproval.--
            (1) The head of an executive agency may not carry out any 
        recommendations contained in the report submitted to Congress 
        under section 2 by the head of the agency if a joint resolution 
        is enacted, in accordance with the provisions of section 4, 
        disapproving such recommendations before the earlier of--
                    (A) the end of the 45-day period beginning on the 
                date on which the head of the executive agency submits 
                such report; or
                    (B) the adjournment of Congress sine die for the 
                session during which such report is submitted.
            (2) For purposes of paragraph (1) of this subsection and 
        subsections (a) and (b) of section 4, the days on which either 
        House of Congress is not in session because of an adjournment 
        of more than three days to a day certain shall be excluded in 
        the computation of a period.

SEC. 4. CONGRESSIONAL CONSIDERATION OF EXECUTIVE AGENCY REPORT.

    (a) Terms of the Resolution.--For purposes of section 3(b), the 
term ``joint resolution'' means only a joint resolution which is 
introduced within the 10-day period beginning on the date on which the 
head of an executive agency submits the report relating to that 
executive agency to Congress under section 2, and--
            (1) which does not have a preamble;
            (2) the matter after the resolving clause of which is as 
        follows: ``That Congress disapproves the recommendations as 
        submitted by _____ on _____'', the first blank space being 
        filled in with the title of the head of the executive agency 
        submitting the report, and the second blank space being filled 
        in with the appropriate date; and
            (3) the title of which is as follows: ``Joint resolution 
        disapproving the recommendations of the ______.'', the blank 
        space being filled in with the title of the head of the 
        executive agency submitting the report.
    (b) Referral.--A resolution described in subsection (a) that is 
introduced in the House of Representatives shall be referred to the 
committee with jurisdiction over the executive agency concerned. A 
resolution described in subsection (a) introduced in the Senate shall 
be referred to the committee with jurisdiction over the executive 
agency concerned.
    (c) Discharge.--If the committee to which a resolution described in 
subsection (a) is referred has not reported such a resolution (or an 
identical resolution) by the end of the 20-day period beginning on the 
date on which the head of the executive agency concerned submits the 
report to the Congress under section 2, such committee shall be, at the 
end of such period, discharged from further consideration of such 
resolution, and such resolution shall be placed on the appropriate 
calendar of the House involved.
    (d) Consideration.--(1) On or after the third day after the date on 
which the committee to which such a resolution is referred has 
reported, or has been discharged (under subsection (c)) from further 
consideration of, such a resolution, it is in order (even though a 
previous motion to the same effect has been disagreed to) for any 
Member of the respective House to move to proceed to the consideration 
of the resolution. A Member may make the motion only on the day after 
the calendar day on which the Member announces to the House concerned 
the Member's intention to make the motion, except that, in the case of 
the House of Representatives, the motion may be made without such prior 
announcement if the motion is made by direction of the committee to 
which the resolution was referred. All points of order against the 
resolution (and against consideration of the resolution) are waived. 
The motion is highly privileged in the House of Representatives and is 
privileged in the Senate and is not debatable. The motion is not 
subject to amendment, or to a motion to postpone, or to a motion to 
proceed to the consideration of other business. A motion to reconsider 
the vote by which the motion is agreed to or disagreed to shall not be 
in order. If a motion to proceed to the consideration of the resolution 
is agreed to, the respective House shall immediately proceed to 
consideration of the joint resolution without intervening motion, 
order, or other business, and the resolution shall remain the 
unfinished business of the respective House until disposed of.
    (2) Debate on the resolution, and on all debatable motions and 
appeals in connection therewith, shall be limited to not more than 2 
hours, which shall be divided equally between those favoring and those 
opposing the resolution. An amendment to the resolution is not in 
order. A motion further to limit debate is in order and not debatable. 
A motion to postpone, or a motion to proceed to the consideration of 
other business, or a motion to recommit the resolution is not in order. 
A motion to reconsider the vote by which the resolution is agreed to or 
disagreed to is not in order.
    (3) Immediately following the conclusion of the debate on a 
resolution described in subsection (a) and a single quorum call at the 
conclusion of the debate if requested in accordance with the rules of 
the appropriate House, the vote on final passage of the resolution 
shall occur.
    (4) Appeals from the decisions of the Chair relating to the 
application of the rules of the Senate or the House of Representatives, 
as the case may be, to the procedure relating to a resolution described 
in subsection (a) shall be decided without debate.
    (e) Consideration by Other House.--(1) If, before the passage by 
one House of a resolution of that House described in subsection (a), 
that House receives from the other House a resolution described in 
subsection (a), then the following procedures shall apply:
            (A) The resolution of the other House shall not be referred 
        to a committee and may not be considered in the House receiving 
        it except in the case of final passage as provided in 
        subparagraph (B)(ii).
            (B) With respect to a resolution described in subsection 
        (a) of the House receiving the resolution--
                    (i) the procedure in that House shall be the same 
                as if no resolution had been received from the other 
                House; but
                    (ii) the vote on final passage shall be on the 
                resolution of the other House.
    (2) Upon disposition of the resolution received from the other 
House, it shall no longer be in order to consider the resolution that 
originated in the receiving House.
    (f) Rules of the Senate and House.--This section is enacted by 
Congress--
            (1) as an exercise of the rulemaking power of the Senate 
        and House of Representatives, respectively, and as such it is 
        deemed a part of the rules of each House, respectively, but 
        applicable only with respect to the procedure to be followed in 
        that House in the case of a resolution described in subsection 
        (a), and it supersedes other rules only to the extent that it 
        is inconsistent with such rules; and
            (2) with full recognition of the constitutional right of 
        either House to change the rules (so far as relating to the 
        procedure of that House) at any time, in the same manner, and 
        to the same extent as in the case of any other rule of that 
        House.

SEC. 5. DEFINITION.

    In this Act, the term ``executive agency'' has the meaning provided 
in section 133 of title 41, United States Code.
                                 <all>
