
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[S. 125 Introduced in Senate (IS)]

113th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                 S. 125

To direct the United States Fish and Wildlife Service, in coordination 
 with the Army Corps of Engineers, the National Park Service, and the 
 United States Geological Survey, to lead a multiagency effort to slow 
the spread of Asian carp in the Upper Mississippi and Ohio River basins 
                and tributaries, and for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

             January 24 (legislative day, January 3), 2013

  Mr. Brown (for himself, Mr. Toomey, Mr. Franken, Mr. Casey, and Ms. 
  Klobuchar) introduced the following bill; which was read twice and 
       referred to the Committee on Environment and Public Works

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
To direct the United States Fish and Wildlife Service, in coordination 
 with the Army Corps of Engineers, the National Park Service, and the 
 United States Geological Survey, to lead a multiagency effort to slow 
the spread of Asian carp in the Upper Mississippi and Ohio River basins 
                and tributaries, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Strategic Response to Asian Carp 
Invasion Act''.

SEC. 2. FINDINGS.

    Congress finds that--
            (1) the rapid spread of several invasive species of Asian 
        carp in the Upper Mississippi River and Ohio River basins and 
        tributaries threatens ecosystems and billions of dollars of 
        economic activities connected to outdoor recreation in States 
        throughout the Midwest; and
            (2) while Federal efforts have focused on preventing the 
        spread of Asian carp into the Great Lakes, there is growing 
        recognition of the threat Asian carp pose to other ecosystems 
        in the Upper Mississippi and Ohio River basins.

SEC. 3. MULTIAGENCY EFFORT TO SLOW THE SPREAD OF ASIAN CARP IN THE 
              UPPER MISSISSIPPI AND OHIO RIVER BASINS AND TRIBUTARIES.

    (a) In General.--The Director of the United States Fish and 
Wildlife Service, in coordination with the Chief of Engineers, the 
Director of the National Park Service, and the Director of the United 
States Geological Survey, shall lead a multiagency effort to slow the 
spread of Asian carp in the Upper Mississippi and Ohio River basins and 
tributaries by providing high-level technical assistance, coordination, 
best practices, and support to State and local governments in carrying 
out activities designed to slow, and eventually eliminate, the threat 
posed by Asian carp.
    (b) Best Practices.--To the maximum extent practicable, the 
multiagency effort shall apply lessons learned and best practices such 
as those described in the document prepared by the Asian Carp Working 
Group entitled ``Management and Control Plan for Bighead, Black, Grass, 
and Silver Carps in the United States'', and dated November 2007, and 
the document prepared by the Asian Carp Regional Coordinating Committee 
entitled ``FY 2012 Asian Carp Control Strategy Framework'' and dated 
February 2012.

SEC. 4. REPORT TO CONGRESS.

    (a) In General.--Not later than December 31 of each year, the 
Director of the United States Fish and Wildlife Service shall submit to 
the Committee on Appropriations and the Committee on Natural Resources 
of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Appropriations and 
the Committee on Environmental and Public Works of the Senate a report 
describing the coordinated strategies established and progress made 
toward goals to control and eliminate Asian carp in the Upper 
Mississippi and Ohio River basins and tributaries.
    (b) Contents.--Each report submitted under subsection (a) shall 
include--
            (1) any observed changes in the range of Asian carp in the 
        Upper Mississippi and Ohio River basins and tributaries during 
        the 2-year period preceding submission of the report;
            (2) a summary of Federal agency efforts, including 
        cooperative efforts with non-Federal partners, to control the 
        spread of Asian carp in the Upper Mississippi and Ohio River 
        basins and tributaries;
            (3) any research that the Director determines could improve 
        the ability to control the spread of Asian carp;
            (4) any quantitative measures that Director intends to use 
        to document progress in controlling the spread of Asian carp; 
        and
            (5) a cross-cut accounting of Federal and non-Federal 
        expenditures to control the spread of Asian carp.
                                 <all>
