
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[S. 1602 Introduced in Senate (IS)]

113th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                S. 1602

 To establish in the Department of Veterans Affairs a national center 
for the diagnosis, treatment, and research of health conditions of the 
 descendants of veterans exposed to toxic substances during service in 
the Armed Forces, to provide certain services to those descendants, to 
 establish an advisory board on exposure to toxic substances, and for 
                            other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                            October 29, 2013

Mr. Blumenthal introduced the following bill; which was read twice and 
             referred to the Committee on Veterans' Affairs

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
 To establish in the Department of Veterans Affairs a national center 
for the diagnosis, treatment, and research of health conditions of the 
 descendants of veterans exposed to toxic substances during service in 
the Armed Forces, to provide certain services to those descendants, to 
 establish an advisory board on exposure to toxic substances, and for 
                            other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Toxic Exposure Research and Military 
Family Support Act of 2013''.

SEC. 2. DEFINITIONS.

    In this Act:
            (1) Armed force.--The term ``Armed Force'' means the United 
        States Army, Navy, Marine Corps, Air Force, or Coast Guard, 
        including the reserve components thereof.
            (2) Descendant.--The term ``descendant'' means, with 
        respect to an individual, the biological child, grandchild, or 
        great-grandchild of that individual.
            (3) Toxic substance.--The term ``toxic substance'' shall 
        have the meaning given that term by the Secretary of Veterans 
        Affairs and shall include all substances that have been proven 
        by peer reviewed scientific research or a preponderance of 
        opinion in the medical community to lead to disabilities 
        related to the exposure of an individual to those substances 
        while serving as a member of the Armed Forces.
            (4) Veteran.--The term ``veteran'' has the meaning given 
        that term in section 101 of title 38, United States Code.

SEC. 3. NATIONAL CENTER FOR THE DIAGNOSIS, TREATMENT, AND RESEARCH OF 
              HEALTH CONDITIONS OF THE DESCENDANTS OF INDIVIDUALS 
              EXPOSED TO TOXIC SUBSTANCES DURING SERVICE IN THE ARMED 
              FORCES.

    (a) National Center.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than one year after the date of 
        the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Veterans Affairs 
        shall select a medical center of the Department of Veterans 
        Affairs to serve as the national center for the diagnosis, 
        treatment, and research of health conditions of descendants of 
        individuals exposed to toxic substances while serving as 
        members of the Armed Forces that are related to that exposure 
        (in this section referred to as the ``Center'').
            (2) Criteria for selection.--The Center shall be selected 
        under paragraph (1) from among medical centers of the 
        Department with expertise in diagnosing and treating functional 
        and structural birth defects and caring for individuals exposed 
        to toxic substances, or that are affiliated with research 
        medical centers or teaching hospitals with such expertise, that 
        seek to be selected under this section.
    (b) Functions.--
            (1) Diagnosis and treatment.--
                    (A) In general.--The Center may diagnose and treat, 
                without charge, each patient for whom the Secretary of 
                Veterans Affairs has made the following determinations:
                            (i) The patient is a descendant of an 
                        individual who served as a member of the Armed 
                        Forces.
                            (ii) The individual was exposed to a toxic 
                        substance while serving as a member of the 
                        Armed Forces.
                            (iii) The patient is afflicted with a 
                        health condition that is determined by the 
                        advisory board established in section 4 to be a 
                        health condition that results from the exposure 
                        of that individual to that toxic substance.
                    (B) Treatment.--Treatment under this section is 
                limited to treatment of health conditions for which the 
                advisory board established in section 4 has made a 
                determination described in subparagraph (A)(iii).
                    (C) Additional diagnosis and treatment.--Nothing in 
                this section shall preclude a patient from receiving 
                additional diagnosis or treatment at the Center or 
                another facility of the Department in connection with 
                other health conditions or benefits to which the 
                individual is entitled under laws administered by the 
                Secretary.
                    (D) Recommendations for future treatment.--
                Recommendations for future treatment of a patient shall 
                be transmitted to a primary care provider for that 
                patient, with follow-up consultations with the Center 
                scheduled as appropriate.
                    (E) Use of records.--
                            (i) In general.--The Secretary of Defense 
                        or the head of a Federal agency may make 
                        available to the Secretary of Veterans Affairs 
                        for review records held by the Department of 
                        Defense, an Armed Force, or that Federal 
                        agency, as appropriate, that might assist the 
                        Secretary of Veterans Affairs in making the 
                        determinations required by subparagraph (A).
                            (ii) Mechanism.--The Secretary of Veterans 
                        Affairs and the Secretary of Defense or the 
                        head of the appropriate Federal agency may 
                        jointly establish a mechanism for the 
                        availability and review of records by the 
                        Secretary of Veterans Affairs under clause (i).
            (2) Research.--The Center may conduct research on the 
        diagnosis and treatment of health conditions of descendants of 
        individuals exposed to toxic substances while serving as 
        members of the Armed Forces that are related to that exposure.
    (c) Social Workers.--The Center shall employ not less than one 
licensed clinical social worker to coordinate access of patients to 
appropriate Federal, State, and local social and healthcare programs 
and to handle case management.
    (d) Reimbursement for Necessary Travel and Room and Board.--The 
Center may reimburse any parent, guardian, spouse, or sibling who 
accompanies a patient diagnosed or treated pursuant to this section for 
the reasonable cost of--
            (1) travel to the Center for diagnosis or treatment of the 
        patient pursuant to this section; and
            (2) room and board during the period in which the patient 
        is undergoing diagnosis or treatment at the Center pursuant to 
        this section.
    (e) Report.--Not less frequently than annually, the Center shall 
submit a report to Congress that includes the following:
            (1) A summary of the extent and nature of care provided 
        pursuant to this section.
            (2) A summary of the research efforts of the Center under 
        this section that have been completed within the previous year 
        and that are ongoing as of the date of the submission of the 
        report under this subsection.

SEC. 4. ADVISORY BOARD.

    (a) Establishment.--Not later than one year after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall 
establish an advisory board (in this section referred to as the 
``Advisory Board'') to advise the Center established under section 3, 
to determine which health conditions result from exposure to toxic 
substances, and to study and evaluate cases of exposure of current and 
former members of the Armed Forces to toxic substances if such exposure 
is related the service of the member in the Armed Forces.
    (b) Membership.--
            (1) Composition.--Not later than 150 days after the date of 
        the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Veterans Affairs 
        shall, in consultation with the Secretary of Health and Human 
        Services and other heads of Federal agencies as the Secretary 
        of Veterans Affairs determines appropriate, select not less 
        than 13 members of the Advisory Board, of whom--
                    (A) not less than three shall be members of 
                organizations exempt from taxation under section 
                501(c)(19) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986;
                    (B) not less than one shall be--
                            (i) a descendant of an individual who was 
                        exposed to toxic substances while serving as a 
                        member of the Armed Forces and the descendant 
                        has manifested a birth defect or functional 
                        disability as a result of the exposure of that 
                        individual; or
                            (ii) a parent, child, or grandchild of that 
                        descendant; and
                    (C) additional members may be selected from among--
                            (i) health professionals, scientists, and 
                        academics with expertise in--
                                    (I) birth defects;
                                    (II) developmental disabilities;
                                    (III) epigenetics;
                                    (IV) public health;
                                    (V) the science of environmental 
                                exposure or environmental exposure 
                                assessment; or
                                    (VI) the science of toxic 
                                substances;
                            (ii) social workers; and
                            (iii) advocates for veterans or members of 
                        the Armed Forces.
            (2) Chairperson.--The Secretary shall select a Chairperson 
        from among the members of the Advisory Board.
            (3) Terms.--Each member of the Advisory Board shall serve a 
        term of two or three years as determined by the Secretary.
    (c) Duties.--
            (1) Advisory role with respect to the center.--With respect 
        to the Center established under section 3, the Advisory Board 
        shall--
                    (A) oversee and assess the work of the Center; and
                    (B) advise the Secretary of Veterans Affairs on--
                            (i) issues related to the provision of 
                        treatment and care at the Center;
                            (ii) issues related to the research 
                        conducted at the Center; and
                            (iii) the particular benefits and services 
                        required by the descendants of individuals 
                        exposed to toxic substances while serving as 
                        members of the Armed Forces.
            (2) Determination that health conditions resulted from 
        toxic exposure.--The Advisory Board shall determine which 
        health conditions in descendants of individuals exposed to 
        toxic substances while serving as members of the Armed Forces 
        are health conditions that resulted from the exposure of that 
        individual to that toxic substance for purposes of eligibility 
        for the following:
                    (A) Treatment of that descendant at the Center 
                established under section 3.
                    (B) Medical care for that descendant under section 
                1781 of title 38, United States Code.
                    (C) Support for the family caregiver of that 
                descendant under section 1720G(a) of such title.
                    (D) Support for the caregiver of that descendant 
                under section 1720G(b) of such title.
            (3) Study and consideration of toxic substance exposure 
        claims.--
                    (A) In general.--The Advisory Board shall study and 
                evaluate claims of exposure to toxic substances by 
                current and former members of the Armed Forces that is 
                related to the service of the member in the Armed 
                Forces.
                    (B) Submission of claims.--Claims of exposure 
                described in subparagraph (A) may be submitted to the 
                Advisory Board in such form and in such manner as the 
                Secretary of Veterans Affairs may require by any of the 
                following individuals or entities:
                            (i) A member of the Armed Forces.
                            (ii) A veteran.
                            (iii) A descendant of a member of the Armed 
                        Forces.
                            (iv) A descendant of a veteran.
                            (v) A veterans advocacy group.
                            (vi) An official of the Department of 
                        Veterans Affairs with responsibility or 
                        experience monitoring the health of current and 
                        former members of the Armed Forces.
                            (vii) An official of the Department of 
                        Defense with responsibility or experience 
                        monitoring the health of current and former 
                        members of the Armed Forces.
                    (C) Consideration of claims.--Not later than 180 
                days after receiving a claim submitted pursuant to 
                subparagraph (B), the Advisory Board shall consider the 
                claim and take one of the following actions:
                            (i) If the Advisory Board determines that 
                        exposure to a toxic substance occurred to a 
                        degree that an individual exposed to that 
                        substance may have or develop a medical 
                        condition that would qualify that individual 
                        for health care or compensation from the 
                        Department of Veterans Affairs or the 
                        Department of Defense, the Advisory Board shall 
                        submit to the Secretary of Veterans Affairs a 
                        report described in subparagraph (D).
                            (ii) If the Advisory Board determines that 
                        further consideration of the claim is necessary 
                        to adequately assess the extent of exposure, 
                        the Advisory Board shall refer the claim to the 
                        Office of Extramural Research established under 
                        section 5 to conduct further research and 
                        report its findings to the Advisory Board.
                            (iii) If the Advisory Board determines that 
                        exposure to a toxic substance did not occur or 
                        occurred to a negligible extent, the Advisory 
                        Board shall report such determination to the 
                        Secretary of Veterans Affairs.
                    (D) Report.--If the Advisory Board makes a 
                determination under subparagraph (C)(i), the Advisory 
                Board shall submit to the Secretary of Veterans Affairs 
                a report that contains the following:
                            (i) Evidence used by the Advisory Board in 
                        making the determination under subparagraph 
                        (C)(i), including, if appropriate, the 
                        following:
                                    (I) Scientific research, including 
                                any research conducted by the Office of 
                                Extramural Research established under 
                                section 5.
                                    (II) Peer-reviewed articles from 
                                scientific journals relating to 
                                exposure to toxic substances.
                                    (III) Medical research conducted by 
                                the Department of Veterans Affairs, the 
                                Department of Defense, or the medical 
                                community.
                            (ii) Recommendations on the extent to which 
                        the Department of Veterans Affairs or the 
                        Department of Defense should provide health 
                        care, benefits, or other compensation with 
                        respect to exposure to a toxic substance to the 
                        following individuals:
                                    (I) An individual exposed to a 
                                toxic substance as determined under 
                                subparagraph (C)(i).
                                    (II) A descendant of that 
                                individual.
                            (iii) Information on cost and attributable 
                        exposure, as defined in regulations prescribed 
                        pursuant to this Act.
                    (E) Publication of evidence.--
                            (i) In general.--Except as provided in 
                        clause (ii), the Secretary shall publish in the 
                        Federal Register the evidence described in 
                        clause (i) of subparagraph (D) that is 
                        submitted with the report required by that 
                        subparagraph.
                            (ii) Exception.--Such evidence may not be 
                        published if the Secretary determines that 
                        preventing such publication--
                                    (I) is in the national security 
                                interest of the United States; or
                                    (II) protects the privacy interests 
                                of individuals exposed to toxic 
                                substances.
                    (F) Subpoena authority.--The Advisory Board may 
                require by subpoena the attendance and testimony of 
                witnesses necessary to consider claims of exposure to 
                toxic substances under this paragraph.
                    (G) Cooperation of federal agencies.--The head of 
                each relevant Federal agency, including the 
                Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency, 
                shall cooperate fully with the Advisory Board for 
                purposes of considering claims of exposure to toxic 
                substances under this paragraph.
    (d) Meetings.--The Advisory Board shall meet at the call of the 
Chair, but not less frequently than semiannually.
    (e) Compensation.--
            (1) In general.--The members of the Advisory Board shall 
        serve without compensation.
            (2) Travel expenses.--The members of the Advisory Board 
        shall be allowed travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of 
        subsistence, at rates authorized for employees of agencies 
        under subchapter I of chapter 57 of title 5, United States 
        Code, while away from their homes or regular places of business 
        in the performance of services for the Advisory Board.
    (f) Personnel.--
            (1) In general.--The Chairperson may, without regard to the 
        civil service laws and regulations, appoint an executive 
        director of the Advisory Board, who shall be a civilian 
        employee of the Department of Veterans Affairs, and such other 
        personnel as may be necessary to enable the Advisory Board to 
        perform its duties.
            (2) Approval.--The appointment of an executive director 
        under paragraph (1) shall be subject to approval by the 
        Advisory Board.
            (3) Compensation.--The Chairperson may fix the compensation 
        of the executive director and other personnel without regard to 
        the provisions of chapter 51 and subchapter III of chapter 53 
        of title 5, United States Code, except that the rate of pay for 
        the executive director and other personnel may not exceed the 
        rate payable for level V of the Executive Schedule under 
        section 5316 of such title.

SEC. 5. OFFICE OF EXTRAMURAL RESEARCH.

    (a) Office.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall 
establish an Office of Extramural Research (in this section referred to 
as the ``Office'')--
            (1) to conduct research on wounds, illnesses, injuries, and 
        other conditions suffered by individuals as a result of 
        exposure to toxic substances while serving as members of the 
        Armed Forces; and
            (2) to assist the Advisory Board established under section 
        4 in the consideration of claims of exposure to toxic 
        substances.
    (b) Director.--The Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall select a 
Director of the Office.
    (c) Grants.--
            (1) In general.--Subject to approval by the advisory 
        council established under subsection (e), the Director may 
        award grants to reputable scientists and epidemiologists to 
        carry out this section.
            (2) Exception.--The Director may not award grants to 
        individuals or organizations associated with or having an 
        interest in a chemical company or any other organization that 
        the Secretary determines may have an interest in the increased 
        use of toxic substances.
    (d) Support to Advisory Board.--Not later than 180 days after 
receiving a request from the Advisory Board established under section 4 
to review a claim of exposure pursuant to subsection (c)(3)(C)(ii) of 
that section, the Office shall submit a report to the Advisory Board 
with one of the following determinations:
            (1) A determination that exposure to a toxic substance 
        occurred to a degree that an individual exposed to that 
        substance may have or develop a medical condition that would 
        qualify that individual for health care or compensation from 
        the Department of Veterans Affairs or the Department of 
        Defense.
            (2) A determination that further study of the claim is 
        necessary, to be carried out by, or under the direction of, the 
        Office in coordination with the Advisory Board.
            (3) A determination that exposure to a toxic substance did 
        not occur or occurred to a negligible extent.
    (e) Advisory Council.--
            (1) Establishment.--Not later than 180 days after the date 
        of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Veterans Affairs 
        shall establish an advisory council (in this section referred 
        to as the ``Council'') for the Office established under this 
        section.
            (2) Membership.--
                    (A) Composition.--
                            (i) In general.--The Secretary of Veterans 
                        Affairs shall, in consultation with the 
                        Secretary of Health and Human Services and any 
                        other heads of Federal agencies as the 
                        Secretary of Veterans Affairs determines 
                        appropriate, select 11 members of the Council, 
                        of whom--
                                    (I) not less than three shall be 
                                members of organizations exempt from 
                                taxation under section 501(c)(19) of 
                                the Internal Revenue Code of 1986; and
                                    (II) additional members may be 
                                selected from among--
                                            (aa) environmental 
                                        epidemiologists;
                                            (bb) academics; and
                                            (cc) veterans or the 
                                        descendants of veterans.
                            (ii) Requirements for scientists.--When 
                        considering individuals who are members of the 
                        scientific community for selection to the 
                        Council, the Secretary of Veterans Affairs may 
                        select only those individuals--
                                    (I) who have evidenced expertise in 
                                and demonstrate a commitment to 
                                research that leads to peer-reviewed 
                                scientific evaluation of the wounds, 
                                illnesses, injuries, and other 
                                conditions that may arise from exposure 
                                to toxic substances; and
                                    (II) who are not associated with 
                                and do not have an interest in a 
                                chemical company or any other 
                                organization that the Secretary 
                                determines may have an interest in the 
                                increased use of toxic substances.
                    (B) Chairperson.--The Secretary of Veterans Affairs 
                shall select a Chairperson from among the members of 
                the Council.
                    (C) Terms.--Each member of the Council shall serve 
                a term of two or three years as determined by the 
                Secretary of Veterans Affairs.
            (3) Duties.--The Council shall--
                    (A) approve or disapprove of grants proposed to be 
                awarded by the Director pursuant to subsection (c); and
                    (B) advise the Secretary of Veterans Affairs and 
                the Director on--
                            (i) establishing guidelines for grant 
                        proposals and research proposals under this 
                        section; and
                            (ii) assisting the Advisory Board 
                        established under section 4 in the 
                        consideration of claims of exposure to toxic 
                        substances.
            (4) Meetings.--The Council shall meet at the call of the 
        Chairperson, but not less frequently than semiannually.
            (5) Compensation.--
                    (A) In general.--The members of the Council shall 
                serve without compensation.
                    (B) Travel expenses.--The members of the Council 
                shall be allowed travel expenses, including per diem in 
                lieu of subsistence, at rates authorized for employees 
                of agencies under subchapter I of chapter 57 of title 
                5, United States Code, while away from their homes or 
                regular places of business in the performance of 
                services for the Council.
    (f) Report.--Not later than two years after the establishment of 
the Office under this section, the Director and the Chairman of the 
Council shall jointly submit to the Secretary of Veterans Affairs and 
Congress a report that contains the following:
            (1) A summary of the research efforts conducted and the 
        grants awarded under this section.
            (2) A summary of the effects of exposure to toxic 
        substances studied pursuant to this section.
            (3) Recommendations for steps to be taken to care for and 
        serve--
                    (A) individuals exposed to toxic substances while 
                serving as a member of the Armed Forces; and
                    (B) the progeny of those individuals.

SEC. 6. PROVISION OF DEPENDENT CARE AND CAREGIVER ASSISTANCE TO 
              DESCENDANTS OF VETERANS EXPOSED TO CERTAIN TOXIC 
              SUBSTANCES DURING SERVICE IN THE ARMED FORCES.

    (a) Dependent Care.--Section 1781(a) of title 38, United States 
Code, is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (3), by striking ``, and'' and inserting a 
        comma;
            (2) in paragraph (4), by striking the semicolon at the end 
        and inserting ``, and''; and
            (3) by inserting after paragraph (4) the following new 
        paragraph:
            ``(5) an individual who is the biological child, 
        grandchild, or great-grandchild of a veteran who the Secretary 
        has determined was exposed to a toxic substance while serving 
        as a member of the Armed Forces, if--
                    ``(A) the individual has a health condition that is 
                determined by the Advisory Board established by section 
                4 of the Toxic Exposure Research and Military Family 
                Support Act of 2013 to be a health condition that 
                results from exposure to that toxic substance,
                    ``(B) the individual is homebound as a result of 
                that health condition, and
                    ``(C) the Secretary determines that the veteran has 
                or had the same health condition,''.
    (b) Caregiver Assistance.--
            (1) Comprehensive assistance.--Subsection (a) of section 
        1720G of title 38, United States Code, is amended--
                    (A) by striking ``veteran'' each place it appears 
                (except for paragraph (2)(A)) and inserting 
                ``individual'';
                    (B) by striking ``veterans'' each place it appears 
                and inserting ``individuals'';
                    (C) in paragraph (2)--
                            (i) by striking subparagraphs (A) and (B) 
                        and inserting the following:
            ``(A)(i) is a veteran or member of the Armed Forces 
        undergoing medical discharge from the Armed Forces and has a 
        serious injury (including traumatic brain injury, psychological 
        trauma, or other mental disorder) incurred or aggravated in the 
        line of duty in the active military, naval, or air service on 
        or after September 11, 2001; or
            ``(ii) is the biological child, grandchild, or great-
        grandchild of a veteran who the Secretary has determined was 
        exposed to a toxic substance while serving as a member of the 
        Armed Forces, if--
                    ``(I) the individual has a health condition that is 
                determined by the Advisory Board established by section 
                4 of the Toxic Exposure Research and Military Family 
                Support Act of 2013 to be a health condition that 
                results from exposure to that toxic substance;
                    ``(II) the individual is homebound as a result of 
                that health condition; and
                    ``(III) the Secretary determines that the veteran 
                has or had the same health condition; and''; and
                            (ii) by redesignating subparagraph (C) as 
                        subparagraph (B); and
                    (D) in paragraph (9)(C)(i), by striking 
                ``veteran's'' and inserting ``individual's''.
            (2) General caregiver support.--Subsection (b) of such 
        section is amended--
                    (A) by striking ``veteran'' each place it appears 
                and inserting ``individual'';
                    (B) by striking ``veterans'' each place it appears 
                and inserting ``individuals'';
                    (C) in paragraph (1), by striking ``who are'' and 
                all that follows through ``of this title''; and
                    (D) in paragraph (2)--
                            (i) by redesignating subparagraphs (A), 
                        (B), and (C) as clauses (i), (ii), and (iii), 
                        respectively; and
                            (ii) in the matter preceding clause (i), as 
                        redesignated by clause (i), by striking ``any 
                        individual who needs'' and inserting ``any 
                        individual who--
            ``(A)(i) is enrolled in the health care system established 
        under section 1705(a) of this title; or
            ``(ii) is the biological child, grandchild, or great-
        grandchild of a veteran who the Secretary has determined was 
        exposed to a toxic substance while serving as a member of the 
        Armed Forces, if--
                    ``(I) the individual has a health condition that is 
                determined by the Advisory Board established by section 
                4 of the Toxic Exposure Research and Military Family 
                Support Act of 2013 to be a health condition that 
                results from exposure to that toxic substance;
                    ``(II) the individual is homebound as a result of 
                that health condition; and
                    ``(III) the Secretary determines that the veteran 
                has or had the same health condition; and
            ``(B) needs''.
            (3) Definitions.--Subsection (d) of such section is 
        amended--
                    (A) by striking ``eligible veteran'' each place it 
                appears and inserting ``eligible individual'';
                    (B) by striking ``covered veteran'' each place it 
                appears and inserting ``covered individual'';
                    (C) in paragraph (1), by striking ``the veteran'' 
                and inserting ``the eligible individual or covered 
                individual'';
                    (D) in paragraph (2), by striking ``the veteran'' 
                and inserting ``the eligible individual'';
                    (E) in paragraph (3), by striking ``the veteran'' 
                each place it appears and inserting ``the eligible 
                individual'';
                    (F) in paragraph (4), by striking ``the veteran'' 
                and inserting ``the eligible individual or covered 
                individual''; and
                    (G) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(5) The term `toxic substance' has the meaning given that 
        term in section 2 of the Toxic Exposure Research and Military 
        Family Support Act of 2013.''.
    (c) Conforming Amendments.--
            (1) Beneficiary travel.--Section 111 of title 38, United 
        States Code, is amended--
                    (A) in subsection (b)(1), by adding at the end the 
                following new subparagraph:
            ``(G) An individual described in section 1720G(a)(2)(A)(ii) 
        of this title.''; and
                    (B) in subsection (e)--
                            (i) by striking ``veteran'' each place it 
                        appears (except for paragraph (2)(B)) and 
                        inserting ``individual''; and
                            (ii) in paragraph (2)(B)--
                                    (I) by striking ``a veteran'' and 
                                inserting ``an individual''; and
                                    (II) by striking ``such veteran'' 
                                and inserting ``such individual''.
            (2) Counseling, training, and mental health services.--
        Section 1782(c)(2) of such title is amended by striking ``an 
        eligible veteran or a caregiver of a covered veteran'' and 
        inserting ``a veteran who is an eligible individual or a 
        caregiver of a veteran who is a covered individual''.

SEC. 7. DECLASSIFICATION BY DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE OF CERTAIN INCIDENTS 
              OF EXPOSURE OF MEMBERS OF THE ARMED FORCES TO TOXIC 
              SUBSTANCES.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary of Defense may declassify documents 
related to any known incident in which not less than 100 members of the 
Armed Forces were exposed to a toxic substance that resulted in at 
least one case of a disability that a member of the medical profession 
has determined to be associated with that toxic substance.
    (b) Limitation.--The declassification authorized by subsection (a) 
shall be limited to information necessary for an individual who was 
potentially exposed to a toxic substance to determine the following:
            (1) Whether that individual was exposed to that toxic 
        substance.
            (2) The potential severity of the exposure of that 
        individual to that toxic substance.
            (3) Any potential health conditions that may have resulted 
        from exposure to that toxic substance.
    (c) Exception.--The Secretary of Defense is not required to 
declassify documents if the Secretary determines that declassification 
of those documents would materially and immediately threaten the 
security of the United States.

SEC. 8. NATIONAL OUTREACH CAMPAIGN ON POTENTIAL LONG-TERM HEALTH 
              EFFECTS OF EXPOSURE TO TOXIC SUBSTANCES BY MEMBERS OF THE 
              ARMED FORCES AND THEIR DESCENDANTS.

    The Secretary of Veterans Affairs, the Secretary of Health and 
Human Services, and the Secretary of Defense shall jointly conduct a 
national outreach and education campaign directed towards members of 
the Armed Forces, veterans, and their family members to communicate the 
following information:
            (1) Information on--
                    (A) incidents of exposure of members of the Armed 
                Forces to toxic substances;
                    (B) health conditions resulting from such exposure; 
                and
                    (C) the potential long-term effects of such 
                exposure on the individuals exposed to those substances 
                and the descendants of those individuals.
            (2) Information on the national center established under 
        section 3 of this Act for individuals eligible for treatment at 
        the center.
                                 <all>
