
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H. Res. 232 Engrossed in House (EH)]

H. Res. 232

                In the House of Representatives, U. S.,

                                                          May 23, 2013.
    Resolved, That upon the adoption of this resolution it shall be in order to 
consider in the House the bill (H.R. 1911) to amend the Higher Education Act of 
1965 to establish interest rates for new loans made on or after July 1, 2013. 
All points of order against consideration of the bill are waived. In lieu of the 
amendment in the nature of a substitute recommended by the Committee on 
Education and the Workforce now printed in the bill, an amendment in the nature 
of a substitute consisting of the text of Rules Committee Print 113-12 shall be 
considered as adopted. The bill, as amended, shall be considered as read. All 
points of order against provisions in the bill, as amended, are waived. The 
previous question shall be considered as ordered on the bill, as amended, and on 
any further amendment thereto, to final passage without intervening motion 
except: (1) one hour of debate equally divided and controlled by the chair and 
ranking minority member of the Committee on Education and the Workforce; and (2) 
one motion to recommit with or without instructions.
    Sec. 2.  In the engrossment of H.R. 1911, the Clerk shall--
     (a) await the disposition of H.R. 1949;
    (b) add the text of H.R. 1949, as passed by the House, as new matter at the 
end of H.R. 1911;
    (c) conform the title of H.R. 1911 to reflect the addition of the text of 
H.R. 1949, as passed by the House, to the engrossment;
    (d) assign appropriate designations to provisions within the engrossment; 
and (e) conform cross-references and provisions for short titles within the 
engrossment.
    Sec. 3.  On any legislative day during the period from May 24, 2013, through 
May 31, 2013--
     (a) the Journal of the proceedings of the previous day shall be considered 
as approved; and
    (b) the Chair may at any time declare the House adjourned to meet at a date 
and time, within the limits of clause 4, section 5, article I of the 
Constitution, to be announced by the Chair in declaring the adjournment.
    Sec. 4.  The Speaker may appoint Members to perform the duties of the Chair 
for the duration of the period addressed by section 3 of this resolution as 
though under clause 8(a) of rule I.
    Sec. 5.  The Committee on Appropriations may, at any time before 6 p.m. on 
Wednesday, May 29, 2013, file privileged reports to accompany measures making 
appropriations for the fiscal year ending September 30, 2014.
    Sec. 6.  The Committee on Agriculture may, at any time before 6 p.m. on 
Wednesday, May 29, 2013, file a report to accompany H.R. 1947.
            Attest:

                                                                          Clerk.
