
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 1909 Introduced in House (IH)]

113th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                H. R. 1909

To amend the Export Enhancement Act of 1988 to make improvements to the 
 trade promotion policies and programs of the United States Government.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                              May 9, 2013

 Mr. Graves of Missouri (for himself, Mr. Chabot, Mr. Luetkemeyer, Mr. 
  Tipton, Mr. Mulvaney, Mrs. Hartzler, Mr. Hanna, Mr. Collins of New 
York, and Ms. Chu) introduced the following bill; which was referred to 
                    the Committee on Foreign Affairs

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
To amend the Export Enhancement Act of 1988 to make improvements to the 
 trade promotion policies and programs of the United States Government.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Export Coordination Act of 2013''.

SEC. 2. DUTIES.

    (a) In General.--Section 2312(b) of the Export Enhancement Act of 
1988 (15 U.S.C. 4727(b)) is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (4), by adding at the end before the 
        semicolon the following: ``, including identifying 
        opportunities to consolidate or co-locate offices of agencies 
        involved in such activities'';
            (2) in paragraph (5)--
                    (A) by inserting ``, including the use and 
                coordination of electronic databases,'' after ``the 
                appropriate levels and allocation of resources''; and
                    (B) by striking ``and'' at the end;
            (3) by redesignating paragraph (6) as paragraph (7); and
            (4) by inserting after paragraph (5) the following:
            ``(6) to the maximum extent practicable, provide a detailed 
        listing of current and future Federal and State-led trade 
        missions, trade fairs, and related activities to ensure better 
        delivery of services to United States businesses; and''.
    (b) Availability of Information.--The Secretary of Commerce shall 
make available the information on Federal and State-led trade missions, 
trade fairs, and related activities described in paragraph (6) of 
section 2312(b) of the Export Enhancement Act of 1988, as added by 
subsection (a)(4) of this section, on the Web site Export.gov or a 
successor Web site.

SEC. 3. STRATEGIC PLAN.

    Section 2312(c) of the Export Enhancement Act of 1988 (15 U.S.C. 
4727(c)) is amended--
            (1) by redesignating paragraphs (3) through (6) as 
        paragraphs (4) through (7), respectively;
            (2) by inserting after paragraph (2) the following:
            ``(3) with respect to export promotion and export financing 
        activities of each agency that is a member of the TPCC--
                    ``(A) clearly identify and explain the role of each 
                agency; and
                    ``(B) describe the goals and objectives of each 
                agency and explain the rationale for measuring and 
                reporting the goals and objectives;'';
            (3) in paragraph (5) (as redesignated)--
                    (A) by inserting ``and Congress'' after ``the 
                President''; and
                    (B) by striking ``paragraph (3)'' and inserting 
                ``paragraph (4)'';
            (4) in paragraph (6) (as redesignated), by striking ``and'' 
        at the end;
            (5) by inserting after paragraph (6) (as redesignated) the 
        following:
            ``(7) include the recommendations of the Comptroller 
        General of the United States as the recommendations relate to 
        coordination of the TPCC and agencies that are members of the 
        TPCC;''; and
            (6) in paragraph (7) (as redesignated), by striking 
        ``United States National Tourism Organization'' and inserting 
        ``United States Travel Association''.

SEC. 4. MEMBERSHIP AND STAFF.

    (a) Membership.--Section 2312(d) of the Export Enhancement Act of 
1988 (15 U.S.C. 4727(d)) is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (1)--
                    (A) by striking ``and'' at the end of subparagraph 
                (L);
                    (B) by redesignating subparagraph (M) as 
                subparagraph (N); and
                    (C) by inserting after subparagraph (L) the 
                following:
                    ``(M) the Millennium Challenge Corporation;'';
            (2) by redesignating paragraph (2) as paragraph (3); and
            (3) by inserting after paragraph (1) the following:
            ``(2) State trade promotion agencies.--The TPCC shall also 
        include one or more members appointed by the President who are 
        representatives from State trade promotion agencies.''.
    (b) Staff.--Section 2312 of the Export Enhancement Act of 1988 (15 
U.S.C. 4727) is amended--
            (1) by redesignating subsection (f) as subsection (g); and
            (2) by inserting after subsection (e) the following:
    ``(f) Staff.--Upon request of the chairperson of the TPCC, the head 
of any Federal department or agency that is a member of the TPCC may 
detail, on a reimbursable basis, any of the personnel of that 
department or agency to the TPCC to assist it in carrying out its 
duties under this section.''.

SEC. 5. MEMBER QUALIFICATIONS.

    Section 2312(e) of the Export Enhancement Act of 1988 (15 U.S.C. 
4727(e)) is amended in the first sentence by inserting ``(other than 
members described in subsection (d)(2))'' after ``Members of the 
TPCC''.

SEC. 6. REPORT TO CONGRESS.

    Subsection (g) of section 2312 of the Export Enhancement Act of 
1988 (15 U.S.C. 4727), as redesignated by section 4(b)(1) of this Act, 
is amended to read as follows:
    ``(g) Report to Congress.--
            ``(1) In general.--The chairperson of the TPCC shall 
        prepare and submit to the appropriate congressional committees, 
        not later than March 30 of each year, a report that--
                    ``(A) describes the strategic plan developed by the 
                TPCC pursuant to subsection (c), the implementation of 
                such plan, and any revisions thereto; and
                    ``(B) describes the implementation of sections 303 
                and 304 of the FREEDOM Support Act (22 U.S.C. 5823 and 
                5824) concerning funding for export promotion 
                activities and the interagency working groups on energy 
                of the TPCC.
            ``(2) Appropriate congressional committees defined.--In 
        this subsection, the term `appropriate congressional 
        committees' means--
                    ``(A) the Committee on Appropriations, the 
                Committee on Energy and Commerce, the Committee on 
                Financial Services, the Committee on Foreign Affairs, 
                the Committee on Small Business, and the Committee on 
                Ways and Means of the House of Representatives; and
                    ``(B) the Committee on Appropriations, the 
                Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation, the 
                Committee on Finance, the Committee on Foreign 
                Relations, and the Committee on Small Business and 
                Entrepreneurship of the Senate.''.

SEC. 7. ADDITIONAL REPORT TO CONGRESS.

    Section 2312 of the Export Enhancement Act of 1988 (15 U.S.C. 4727) 
is amended by adding at the end the following:
    ``(h) Additional Report to Congress.--
            ``(1) In general.--The Inspector General of the Department 
        of Commerce shall prepare and submit to the appropriate 
        congressional committees, not later than March 30 of each year, 
        a report on the extent to which the TPCC is successfully 
        carrying out its duties as described in subsection (b) and the 
        extent to which the strategic plan as described in subsection 
        (c) is successfully being implemented.
            ``(2) Consultation.--In preparing the report required under 
        paragraph (1), the Inspector General of the Department of 
        Commerce shall, to the maximum extent practicable, consult with 
        the inspector general of each other Federal department or 
        agency that is a member of the TPCC.
            ``(3) Appropriate congressional committees defined.--In 
        this subsection, the term `appropriate congressional 
        committees' has the meaning given such term in subsection 
        (g)(2).''.
                                 <all>
