
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[S. 853 Considered and Passed Senate (CPS)]

113th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                 S. 853

  To provide the Secretary of Transportation with the flexibility to 
 transfer certain funds to prevent reduced operations and staffing of 
      the Federal Aviation Administration, and for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                             April 25, 2013

  Ms. Collins (for herself, Mr. Rockefeller, Mr. Thune, Mr. Udall of 
Colorado, Mr. Risch, Mrs. Hagan, Mr. Roberts, Mr. Isakson, Mr. Toomey, 
 Mrs. McCaskill, Ms. Murkowski, Mr. Warner, Mr. Chambliss, Mr. Nelson, 
 Mr. Begich, and Mr. Heller) introduced the following bill; which was 
        read twice, considered, read the third time, and passed

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
  To provide the Secretary of Transportation with the flexibility to 
 transfer certain funds to prevent reduced operations and staffing of 
      the Federal Aviation Administration, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Reducing Flight Delays Act of 
2013''.

SEC. 2. AUTHORIZATION TO TRANSFER CERTAIN FUNDS TO PREVENT REDUCED 
              OPERATIONS AND STAFFING OF THE FEDERAL AVIATION 
              ADMINISTRATION.

    (a) In General.--Notwithstanding division G of the Consolidated and 
Further Continuing Appropriations Act, 2013 (Public Law 113-6), any 
other provision of law, or a sequestration order issued or to be issued 
by the President pursuant to section 251A(7)(A) of the Balanced Budget 
and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985 (2 U.S.C. 901a(7)(A)), the 
Secretary of Transportation may transfer during fiscal year 2013 an 
amount equal to the amount specified in subsection (c) to the 
appropriations account providing for the operations of the Federal 
Aviation Administration, for any activity or activities funded by that 
account, from--
            (1) the amount made available for obligation in that fiscal 
        year as discretionary grants-in-aid for airports pursuant to 
        section 47117(f) of title 49, United States Code; or
            (2) any other program or account of the Federal Aviation 
        Administration.
    (b) Availability and Obligation of Transferred Amounts.--An amount 
transferred under subsection (a)(1) shall--
            (1) be available immediately for obligation and expenditure 
        as directly appropriated budget authority; and
            (2) be deemed as obligated for grants-in-aid for airports 
        under part B of subtitle VII of title 49, United States Code, 
        for purposes of complying with the limitation on incurring 
        obligations during that fiscal year under the heading ``Grants-
        in-Aid for Airports'' under title I of the Transportation, 
        Housing and Urban Development, and Related Agencies 
        Appropriations Act, 2012 (division C of Public Law 112-55; 125 
        Stat. 647), and made applicable to fiscal year 2013 by division 
        F of the Consolidated and Further Continuing Appropriations 
        Act, 2013 (Public Law 113-6).
    (c) Amount Specified.--The amount specified in this subsection is 
the amount, not to exceed $253,000,000, that the Secretary of 
Transportation determines to be necessary to prevent reduced operations 
and staffing of the Federal Aviation Administration during fiscal year 
2013 to ensure a safe and efficient air transportation system; and 
provided that none of the funds transferred under this subsection may 
be obligated unless the Secretary notifies the Committees on 
Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the Senate at least 
5 days in advance of such transfer.
                                 <all>
