
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.J. Res. 72 Placed on Calendar Senate (PCS)]

                                                       Calendar No. 207
113th CONGRESS
  1st Session
H. J. RES. 72


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                            October 4, 2013

                    Received and read the first time

                            October 5, 2013

            Read the second time and placed on the calendar

_______________________________________________________________________

                            JOINT RESOLUTION


 
Making continuing appropriations for veterans benefits for fiscal year 
                     2014, and for other purposes.

    Resolved by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United 
States of America in Congress assembled, That the following sums are 
hereby appropriated, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise 
appropriated, and out of applicable corporate or other revenues, 
receipts, and funds, for veterans benefits for fiscal year 2014, and 
for other purposes, namely:
    Sec. 101. (a) Amounts are provided for entitlements and other 
mandatory payments whose budget authority was provided in the Military 
Construction and Veterans Affairs, and Related Agencies Appropriations 
Act, 2013 (division E of Public Law 113-6), to continue activities at 
the rate to maintain program levels under current law, under the 
authority and conditions provided in the applicable appropriations Act 
for fiscal year 2013, to be continued through the date specified in 
section 103(3).
    (b) Notwithstanding section 103, obligations for mandatory payments 
due on or about the first day of any month that begins after October 
2013 but not later than 30 days after the date specified in section 
103(3) may continue to be made, and funds shall be available for such 
payments.
    Sec. 102.  Amounts are provided for ``Department of Veterans 
Affairs--Departmental Administration--General Operating Expenses, 
Veterans Benefits Administration'' at a rate for operations of 
$2,455,490,000: Provided, That such amount shall be made available 
subject to the authority and conditions as provided under the Military 
Construction and Veterans Affairs, and Related Agencies Appropriations 
Act, 2013 (division E of Public Law 113-6) and shall be available to 
the extent and in the manner that would be provided by such Act.
    Sec. 103.  Unless otherwise provided for in this joint resolution 
or in the applicable appropriations Act for fiscal year 2014, 
appropriations and funds made available and authority granted pursuant 
to this joint resolution shall be available until whichever of the 
following first occurs: (1) the enactment into law of an appropriation 
for any project or activity provided for in this joint resolution; (2) 
the enactment into law of the applicable appropriations Act for fiscal 
year 2014 without any provision for such project or activity; or (3) 
December 15, 2013.
    Sec. 104.  It is the sense of Congress that this joint resolution 
may also be referred to as the ``Honoring Our Promise to America's 
Veterans Act''.
     This joint resolution may be cited as the ``Veterans Benefits 
Continuing Appropriations Resolution, 2014''.

            Passed the House of Representatives October 3, 2013.

            Attest:

                                                 KAREN L. HAAS,

                                                                 Clerk.




                                                       Calendar No. 207

113th CONGRESS

  1st Session

                             H. J. RES. 72

_______________________________________________________________________

                            JOINT RESOLUTION

Making continuing appropriations for veterans benefits for fiscal year 
                     2014, and for other purposes.

_______________________________________________________________________

                            October 5, 2013

            Read the second time and placed on the calendar
