
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H. Res. 576 Reported in House (RH)]

                                                 House Calendar No. 107
113th CONGRESS
  2d Session
H. RES. 576

                          [Report No. 113-444]

Providing for consideration of the bill (H.R. 10) to amend the charter 
  school program under the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 
 1965; relating to consideration of the bill (H.R. 4438) to amend the 
   Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to simplify and make permanent the 
                research credit; and for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                              May 7, 2014

     Ms. Foxx, from the Committee on Rules, reported the following 
resolution; which was referred to the House Calendar and ordered to be 
                                printed

_______________________________________________________________________

                               RESOLUTION


 
Providing for consideration of the bill (H.R. 10) to amend the charter 
  school program under the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 
 1965; relating to consideration of the bill (H.R. 4438) to amend the 
   Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to simplify and make permanent the 
                research credit; and for other purposes.

    Resolved, That at any time after adoption of this resolution the 
Speaker may, pursuant to clause 2(b) of rule XVIII, declare the House 
resolved into the Committee of the Whole House on the state of the 
Union for consideration of the bill (H.R. 10) to amend the charter 
school program under the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 
1965. The first reading of the bill shall be dispensed with. All points 
of order against consideration of the bill are waived. General debate 
shall be confined to the bill and shall not exceed 90 minutes equally 
divided and controlled by the chair and ranking minority member of the 
Committee on Education and the Workforce. After general debate the bill 
shall be considered for amendment under the five-minute rule. It shall 
be in order to consider as an original bill for the purpose of 
amendment under the five-minute rule the amendment in the nature of a 
substitute recommended by the Committee on Education and the Workforce 
now printed in the bill. The committee amendment in the nature of a 
substitute shall be considered as read. All points of order against the 
committee amendment in the nature of a substitute are waived. No 
amendment to the committee amendment in the nature of a substitute 
shall be in order except those printed in part A of the report of the 
Committee on Rules accompanying this resolution. Each such amendment 
may be offered only in the order printed in the report, may be offered 
only by a Member designated in the report, shall be considered as read, 
shall be debatable for the time specified in the report equally divided 
and controlled by the proponent and an opponent, shall not be subject 
to amendment, and shall not be subject to a demand for division of the 
question in the House or in the Committee of the Whole. All points of 
order against such amendments are waived. At the conclusion of 
consideration of the bill for amendment the Committee shall rise and 
report the bill to the House with such amendments as may have been 
adopted. Any Member may demand a separate vote in the House on any 
amendment adopted in the Committee of the Whole to the bill or to the 
committee amendment in the nature of a substitute. The previous 
question shall be considered as ordered on the bill and amendments 
thereto to final passage without intervening motion except one motion 
to recommit with or without instructions.
    Sec. 2.  On any legislative day during the period from May 12, 
2014, through May 16, 2014--
     (a) the Journal of the proceedings of the previous day shall be 
considered as approved; and
    (b) the Chair may at any time declare the House adjourned to meet 
at a date and time, within the limits of clause 4, section 5, article I 
of the Constitution, to be announced by the Chair in declaring the 
adjournment.
    Sec. 3.  The Speaker may appoint Members to perform the duties of 
the Chair for the duration of the period addressed by section 2 of this 
resolution as though under clause 8(a) of rule I.
    Sec. 4.  It shall be in order at any time on the legislative day of 
May 8, 2014, for the Speaker to entertain motions that the House 
suspend the rules, as though under clause 1 of rule XV, relating to the 
bill (H.R. 4366) to strengthen the Federal education research system to 
make research and evaluations more timely and relevant to State and 
local needs in order to increase student achievement.
    Sec. 5.  The Committee on Appropriations may, at any time before 5 
p.m. on Thursday, May 15, 2014, file privileged reports to accompany 
measures making appropriations for the fiscal year ending September 30, 
2015.
    Sec. 6.  During consideration of the bill (H.R. 4438) to amend the 
Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to simplify and make permanent the 
research credit, pursuant to House Resolution 569, the further 
amendment printed in part B of the report of the Committee on Rules 
accompanying this resolution shall be considered as adopted.
    Sec. 7.  House Resolution 569 is amended by striking ``90 minutes'' 
and inserting ``one hour''.
                                                 House Calendar No. 107

113th CONGRESS

  2d Session

                              H. RES. 576

                          [Report No. 113-444]

_______________________________________________________________________

                               RESOLUTION

Providing for consideration of the bill (H.R. 10) to amend the charter 
  school program under the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 
 1965; relating to consideration of the bill (H.R. 4438) to amend the 
   Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to simplify and make permanent the 
                research credit; and for other purposes.

_______________________________________________________________________

                              May 7, 2014

        Referred to the House Calendar and ordered to be printed
