
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 466 Introduced in House (IH)]

113th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                H. R. 466

     To amend title II of the Social Security Act to prohibit the 
  Commissioner of Social Security from publishing the social security 
numbers of deceased individuals in the Death Master File, and for other 
                               purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                            February 4, 2013

 Mr. Capuano introduced the following bill; which was referred to the 
                      Committee on Ways and Means

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
     To amend title II of the Social Security Act to prohibit the 
  Commissioner of Social Security from publishing the social security 
numbers of deceased individuals in the Death Master File, and for other 
                               purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Social Security Death Master File 
Privacy Act of 2013''.

SEC. 2. PROHIBITION ON PUBLICATION OF SOCIAL SECURITY ACCOUNT NUMBERS 
              IN THE DEATH MASTER FILE.

    (a) In General.--Section 205(c)(2) of the Social Security Act (42 
U.S.C. 405(c)(2)) is amended by adding at the end the following:
    ``(I)(i) The Commissioner of Social Security may not publish in the 
Death Master File (or any other public database maintained by the 
Commissioner that contains information relating to the death of 
individuals) the social security account number of any deceased 
individual.
    ``(ii) The Commissioner shall not be compelled to disclose the 
social security account number of any deceased individual to any member 
of the public under section 552 of title 5, United States Code. For 
purposes of such section, this clause shall be considered a statute 
described in subsection (b)(3)(B) of such section.''.
    (b) Information Sharing With Federal and State Agencies.--Section 
205(r)(3) of such Act (42 U.S.C. 405(r)(3)) is amended by inserting 
after ``such information'' the following: ``(including information 
related to a deceased individual received by the Commissioner other 
than as described in paragraph (1))''.
    (c) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this section shall take 
effect 90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act.
                                 <all>
