
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[S. 3000 Introduced in Senate (IS)]

113th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                S. 3000

 To establish the Hurricane Sand Dunes National Recreation Area in the 
                 State of Utah, and for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                           December 11, 2014

   Mr. Hatch introduced the following bill; which was read twice and 
       referred to the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
 To establish the Hurricane Sand Dunes National Recreation Area in the 
                 State of Utah, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Hurricane Sand Dunes National 
Recreation Area Act of 2014''.

SEC. 2. DEFINITIONS.

    In this Act:
            (1) Federal land.--The term ``Federal land'' means land 
        owned and managed by the Bureau of Land Management in 
        Washington County in the State.
            (2) Map.--The term ``map'' means the map prepared by the 
        Bureau of Land Management entitled ``Hurricane Sand Dunes 
        National Recreation Area'' and dated November 14, 2014.
            (3) Non-federal land.--The term ``non-Federal land'' means 
        the State land identified on the map as State land.
            (4) Proposed exchange parcel.--The term ``proposed exchange 
        parcel'' means the approximately 1,205 acres of Bureau of Land 
        Management land identified on the map as ``Proposed Exchange 
        Parcel''.
            (5) Recreation area.--The term ``Recreation Area'' means 
        the Hurricane Sand Dunes National Recreation Area established 
        by section 3(a).
            (6) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary 
        of the Interior.
            (7) State.--The term ``State'' means the State of Utah.

SEC. 3. HURRICANE SAND DUNES NATIONAL RECREATION AREA, UTAH.

    (a) Designation.--There is established in the State the Hurricane 
Sand Dunes National Recreation Area to provide for--
            (1) the enhancement of recreational uses; and
            (2) the use of off-highway vehicles.
    (b) Boundary.--
            (1) In general.--The Recreation Area shall consist of the 
        approximately 18,447 acres of Bureau of Land Management land in 
        the State identified on the map as ``Open OHV Area''.
            (2) Exclusion.--The proposed exchange parcel shall be 
        excluded from the Recreation Area.
    (c) Administration of Recreation Area and Proposed Exchange 
Parcel.--The Secretary, acting through the Director of the Bureau of 
Land Management, shall--
            (1) administer the Recreation Area and proposed exchange 
        parcel--
                    (A) in accordance with--
                            (i) the applicable Federal laws (including 
                        regulations) and rules applicable to the Bureau 
                        of Land Management; and
                            (ii) applicable land use plans; and
                    (B) consistent with the administration of the Sand 
                Mountain Open OHV Area, as in existence on the day 
                before the date of enactment of this Act; and
            (2) only allow uses of the Recreation Area that are 
        consistent with the purposes described in subsection (a).
    (d) Fish and Wildlife.--Nothing in this section affects the 
jurisdiction or responsibilities of the State with respect to fish and 
wildlife in the State.
    (e) Adjacent Management.--Nothing in this section creates any 
protective perimeter or buffer zone around the Recreation Area.
    (f) Use of Off-Highway Vehicles.--The land described in subsection 
(b)(1) shall remain open, in perpetuity, to the use of off-highway 
vehicles.

SEC. 4. EXCHANGE OF FEDERAL LAND AND NON-FEDERAL LAND.

    (a) In General.--If the State offers to convey to the United States 
title to the non-Federal land, the Secretary shall--
            (1) accept the offer; and
            (2) on receipt of all right, title, and interest in and to 
        the non-Federal land, convey to the State all right, title, and 
        interest of the United States in and to the Federal land.
    (b) Valid Existing Rights.--The exchange authorized under 
subsection (a) shall be subject to valid existing rights.
    (c) Title Approval.--Title to the Federal land and non-Federal land 
to be exchanged under this section shall be in a format acceptable to 
the Secretary and the State.
    (d) Appraisals.--
            (1) In general.--The value of the Federal land and the non-
        Federal land to be exchanged under this section shall be 
        determined by appraisals conducted by 1 or more independent 
        appraisers retained by the State, with the consent of the 
        Secretary.
            (2) Applicable law.--The appraisals under paragraph (1) 
        shall be conducted in accordance with nationally recognized 
        appraisal standards, including, as appropriate, the Uniform 
        Appraisal Standards for Federal Land Acquisitions.
            (3) Approval.--The appraisals conducted under paragraph (1) 
        shall be submitted to the Secretary and the State for approval.
    (e) Equal Value Exchange.--
            (1) In general.--The value of the Federal land and non-
        Federal land to be exchanged under this section--
                    (A) shall be equal; or
                    (B) shall be made equal in accordance with 
                paragraph (2).
            (2) Equalization.--
                    (A) Surplus of federal land.--If the value of the 
                Federal land exceeds the value of the non-Federal land, 
                the value of the Federal land and non-Federal land 
                shall be equalized, as determined to be appropriate and 
                acceptable by the Secretary and the State--
                            (i) by reducing the acreage of the Federal 
                        land to be conveyed; or
                            (ii) by adding additional State land to the 
                        non-Federal land to be conveyed.
                    (B) Surplus of non-federal land.--If the value of 
                the non-Federal land exceeds the value of the Federal 
                land, the value of the Federal land and non-Federal 
                land shall be equalized by reducing the acreage of the 
                non-Federal land to be conveyed, as determined to be 
                appropriate and acceptable by the Secretary and the 
                State.
    (f) Status and Management of Non-Federal Land.--On conveyance to 
the Secretary, the non-Federal land shall, in accordance with section 
206(c) of the Federal Land Policy Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1716(c)), be 
added to, and administered by the Secretary as part of, the Recreation 
Area.
                                 <all>
