
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[S.J. Res. 18 Introduced in Senate (IS)]

113th CONGRESS
  1st Session
S. J. RES. 18

  Proposing an amendment to the Constitution of the United States to 
     clarify the authority of Congress and the States to regulate 
 corporations, limited liability companies or other corporate entities 
established by the laws of any State, the United States, or any foreign 
                                 state.


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                             June 18, 2013

Mr. Tester (for himself and Mr. Murphy) introduced the following joint 
 resolution; which was read twice and referred to the Committee on the 
                               Judiciary

_______________________________________________________________________

                            JOINT RESOLUTION


 
  Proposing an amendment to the Constitution of the United States to 
     clarify the authority of Congress and the States to regulate 
 corporations, limited liability companies or other corporate entities 
established by the laws of any State, the United States, or any foreign 
                                 state.

    Resolved by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United 
States of America in Congress assembled (two-thirds of each House 
concurring therein), That the following article is proposed as an 
amendment to the Constitution of the United States, which shall be 
valid to all intents and purposes as part of the Constitution when 
ratified by the legislatures of three-fourths of the several States:

                              ``Article--

    ``Section 1. We the people who ordain and establish this 
Constitution intend the rights protected by this Constitution to be the 
rights of natural persons.
    ``Section 2. The words people, person, or citizen as used in this 
Constitution do not include corporations, limited liability companies 
or other corporate entities established by the laws of any State, the 
United States, or any foreign state, and such corporate entities are 
subject to such regulation as the people, through their elected State 
and Federal representatives, deem reasonable and are otherwise 
consistent with the powers of Congress and the States under this 
Constitution.
    ``Section 3. Nothing contained herein shall be construed to limit 
the people's rights of freedom of speech, freedom of the press, free 
exercise of religion, freedom of association and all such other rights 
of the people, which rights are unalienable.''.
                                 <all>
