
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.J. Res. 78 Introduced in House (IH)]

113th CONGRESS
  1st Session
H. J. RES. 78

  Making continuing appropriations for national intelligence program 
        operations for fiscal year 2014, and for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                            October 3, 2013

 Mr. Young of Florida introduced the following joint resolution; which 
            was referred to the Committee on Appropriations

_______________________________________________________________________

                            JOINT RESOLUTION


 
  Making continuing appropriations for national intelligence program 
        operations for fiscal year 2014, and for other purposes.

    Resolved by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United 
States of America in Congress assembled, That the following sums are 
hereby appropriated, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise 
appropriated, for national intelligence program operations for fiscal 
year 2014, and for other purposes, namely:
    Sec. 101. (a) Such amounts as may be necessary, at a rate for 
operations as provided for in the Department of Defense Appropriations 
Act, 2013 (division C of Public Law 113-6), and under the authority and 
conditions provided in such Act, for continuing the following projects 
or activities, conducted in fiscal year 2013, for which appropriations, 
funds, or other authority were made available under such Act, as set 
forth under the heading ``National Intelligence Program'' in the 
classified annex accompanying such Act:
            (1) Payment of personnel compensation and benefits for 
        civilian employees whom the Director of National Intelligence 
        determines necessary to continue--
                    (A) producing finished intelligence for the 
                President or senior military or civilian officials of 
                the Federal government;
                    (B) collecting human, signals, or technical 
                intelligence;
                    (C) conducting a covert action (as defined in 
                section 503(e) of the National Security Act of 1947 (50 
                U.S.C. 3093(e))), as directed by the President;
                    (D) providing analytic support to critical ongoing 
                intelligence operations and military combat operations; 
                and
                    (E) maintaining the capability to provide warnings 
                of counterterrorism and international terrorist threats 
                to protect the life, safety, and security of the United 
                States interests.
            (2) Payments under continuing contracts for compensation of 
        a contract employee or employees whom the Director of National 
        Intelligence determines necessary to support a function 
        described in any subparagraph of paragraph (1).
    (b) The rate for operations provided by subsection (a) for each 
project or activity shall be calculated to reflect the full amount of 
any reduction required in fiscal year 2013 pursuant to--
            (1) any provision of division G of the Consolidated and 
        Further Continuing Appropriations Act, 2013 (Public Law 113-6), 
        including section 3004; and
            (2) the Presidential sequestration order dated March 1, 
        2013, except as attributable to budget authority made available 
        by the Disaster Relief Appropriations Act, 2013 (Public Law 
        113-2).
    Sec. 102.  Appropriations made by section 101 shall be available to 
the extent and in the manner that would be provided by the pertinent 
appropriations Act.
    Sec. 103.  Unless otherwise provided for in this joint resolution 
or in the applicable appropriations Act for fiscal year 2014, 
appropriations and funds made available and authority granted pursuant 
to this joint resolution shall be available until whichever of the 
following first occurs: (1) the enactment into law of an appropriation 
for any project or activity provided for in this joint resolution; (2) 
the enactment into law of the applicable appropriations Act for fiscal 
year 2014 without any provision for such project or activity; or (3) 
December 15, 2013.
    Sec. 104.  Expenditures made pursuant to this joint resolution 
shall be charged to the applicable appropriation, fund, or 
authorization whenever a bill in which such applicable appropriation, 
fund, or authorization is contained is enacted into law.
    Sec. 105.  This joint resolution shall be implemented so that only 
the most limited funding action of that permitted in the joint 
resolution shall be taken in order to provide for continuation of 
projects and activities.
    Sec. 106.  It is the sense of Congress that this joint resolution 
may also be referred to as the ``Preserving Our Intelligence 
Capabilities Act''.
     This joint resolution may be cited as the ``National Intelligence 
Program Operations Continuing Appropriations Resolution, 2014''.
                                 <all>
