
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 45 Engrossed in House (EH)]

113th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                 H. R. 45

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 AN ACT


 
  To repeal the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and health 
care-related provisions in the Health Care and Education Reconciliation 
                              Act of 2010.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. REPEAL OF PPACA AND HEALTH CARE-RELATED PROVISIONS IN THE 
              HEALTH CARE AND EDUCATION RECONCILIATION ACT OF 2010.

    (a) PPACA.--Effective as of the enactment of the Patient Protection 
and Affordable Care Act (Public Law 111-148), such Act is repealed, and 
the provisions of law amended or repealed by such Act are restored or 
revived as if such Act had not been enacted.
    (b) Health Care-Related Provisions in the Health Care and Education 
Reconciliation Act of 2010.--Effective as of the enactment of the 
Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010 (Public Law 111-
152), title I and subtitle B of title II of such Act are repealed, and 
the provisions of law amended or repealed by such title or subtitle, 
respectively, are restored or revived as if such title and subtitle had 
not been enacted.

SEC. 2. BUDGETARY EFFECTS OF THIS ACT.

    The budgetary effects of this Act, for the purpose of complying 
with the Statutory Pay-As-You-Go Act of 2010, shall be determined by 
reference to the latest statement titled ``Budgetary Effects of PAYGO 
Legislation'' for this Act, submitted for printing in the Congressional 
Record by the Chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the House of 
Representatives, as long as such statement has been submitted prior to 
the vote on passage of this Act.

            Passed the House of Representatives May 16, 2013.

            Attest:

                                                                 Clerk.
113th CONGRESS

  1st Session

                                H. R. 45

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 AN ACT

  To repeal the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and health 
care-related provisions in the Health Care and Education Reconciliation 
                              Act of 2010.
