
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[S. 1344 Reported in Senate (RS)]

                                                       Calendar No. 237
113th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                S. 1344

                          [Report No. 113-117]

To promote research, monitoring, and observation of the Arctic and for 
                            other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                             July 23, 2013

  Mr. Begich introduced the following bill; which was read twice and 
   referred to the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation

                            November 6, 2013

             Reported by Mr. Rockefeller, with an amendment
 [Strike out all after the enacting clause and insert the part printed 
                               in italic]

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
To promote research, monitoring, and observation of the Arctic and for 
                            other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

<DELETED>SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.</DELETED>

<DELETED>    This Act may be cited as the ``Arctic Research, 
Monitoring, and Observing Act of 2013''.</DELETED>

<DELETED>SEC. 2. ARCTIC RESEARCH COMMISSION.</DELETED>

<DELETED>    (a) Duties of the Arctic Research Commission.--Section 
104(a) of the Arctic Research and Policy Act of 1984 (15 U.S.C. 
4103(a)) is amended--</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    (1) in paragraph (2), by striking ``assist in 
        establishing'' and inserting ``establish'';</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    (2) by redesignating paragraphs (3) through (10) 
        as paragraphs (4) through (11), respectively; and</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    (3) by inserting after paragraph (2) the 
        following:</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    ``(3) award--</DELETED>
                <DELETED>    ``(A) grants to Federal, State, local, or 
                tribal governments and academic and private 
                organizations to conduct research on or related to the 
                Arctic, including to the marine environment of the 
                Arctic Ocean, its adjacent seas or associated lesser 
                bodies of water; and</DELETED>
                <DELETED>    ``(B) such grants on the basis of merit in 
                accordance with the national Arctic research program 
                plan;''.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    (b) Administration of the Commission.--Section 106 of the 
Arctic Research and Policy Act of 1984 (15 U.S.C. 4105) is amended--
</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    (1) in paragraph (4), by striking ``and'' at the 
        end;</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    (2) in paragraph (5), by striking the period at 
        the end and inserting ``; and''; and</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    (3) by adding at the end the following:</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    ``(6) enter into agreements with appropriate 
        agencies or organizations to administer grants made pursuant to 
        this title for Arctic research including reimbursement from 
        funds of the Commission to administer such grants.''.</DELETED>
<DELETED>    (c) Conflicts of Interest; Arctic Research Commission.--
Section 103 of the Arctic Research and Policy Act of 1984 (15 U.S.C. 
4102) is amended by adding at the end the following:</DELETED>
<DELETED>    ``(e) Conflict of Interest.--The Commission shall adopt 
conflict of interest and recusal provisions that apply to any decision 
by the Commission and to all members of the Commission as if each 
member of the Commission is an `affected individual' within the meaning 
of section 302(j) of the Magnuson-Stevens Fishery Conservation and 
Management Act (16 U.S.C. 1852(j)), except that in addition to the 
disclosure requirements of paragraph (2) of such section 302(j), each 
member of the Commission shall disclose any financial interest or 
relationship in an organization or with an individual that is applying 
for funding from the Commission held by the member of the Commission, 
including an interest as an officer, director, trustee, partner, 
employee, contractor, agent, or other representative.''.</DELETED>

<DELETED>SEC. 3. NORTH PACIFIC RESEARCH BOARD.</DELETED>

<DELETED>    Subsection (e) of section 401 of the Department of the 
Interior and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 1998 (43 U.S.C. 
1474d(e)) is amended by striking paragraph (5) and inserting the 
following:</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    ``(5) The Board may adopt such rules of procedure 
        and establish such committees as it deems necessary to carry 
        out the purposes of this title, including the conduct of 
        administrative duties between meetings.</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    ``(6) All decisions of the Board shall be by 
        majority vote of the full board in regular session.</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    ``(7) The Board shall adopt conflict of interest 
        and recusal provisions that apply to any decision by the Board 
        and to all members of the Board as if each member of the Board 
        is an `affected individual' within the meaning of section 
        302(j) of the Magnuson-Stevens Fishery Conservation and 
        Management Act (16 U.S.C. 1852(j)), except that in addition to 
        the disclosure requirements of paragraph (2) of such section 
        302(j), each member of the Board shall disclose any financial 
        interest or relationship in an organization or with an 
        individual that is applying for funding from the Board, 
        including an interest as an officer, director, trustee, 
        partner, employee, contractor, agent, or other 
        representative.</DELETED>
        <DELETED>    ``(8) The Secretary of Commerce may accept funds 
        from a source other than the Government of the United States to 
        be used by the Board to carry out the Board's 
        functions.''.</DELETED>

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Arctic Research, Monitoring, and 
Observing Act of 2013''.

SEC. 2. ARCTIC RESEARCH COMMISSION.

    (a) Duties of the Arctic Research Commission.--Section 104(a) of 
the Arctic Research and Policy Act of 1984 (15 U.S.C. 4103(a)) is 
amended--
            (1) in paragraph (2), by striking ``assist in 
        establishing'' and inserting ``establish'';
            (2) by redesignating paragraphs (3) through (10) as 
        paragraphs (4) through (11), respectively; and
            (3) by inserting after paragraph (2) the following:
            ``(3) award--
                    ``(A) grants to Federal, State, local, or tribal 
                governments and academic and private organizations to 
                conduct research on or related to the Arctic, including 
                to the marine environment of the Arctic Ocean, its 
                adjacent seas or associated lesser bodies of water; and
                    ``(B) such grants on the basis of merit in 
                accordance with the national Arctic research program 
                plan;''.
    (b) Administration of the Commission.--Section 106 of the Arctic 
Research and Policy Act of 1984 (15 U.S.C. 4105) is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (4), by striking ``and'' at the end;
            (2) in paragraph (5), by striking the period at the end and 
        inserting ``; and''; and
            (3) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(6) enter into agreements with appropriate agencies or 
        organizations to administer grants made pursuant to this title 
        for Arctic research including reimbursement from funds of the 
        Commission to administer such grants.''.
    (c) Conflicts of Interest; Arctic Research Commission.--Section 103 
of the Arctic Research and Policy Act of 1984 (15 U.S.C. 4102) is 
amended by adding at the end the following:
    ``(e) Conflict of Interest.--The Commission shall adopt conflict of 
interest and recusal provisions which shall apply to any decision by 
the Commission and to all members of the Commission which at a minimum 
are substantially equivalent to conflict of interest and recusal 
provisions set forth in section 302(j) of the Magnuson-Stevens Fishery 
Conservation and Management Act (16 U.S.C. 1852(j)) as if each member 
of the Commission is an `affected individual' within the meaning of 
such section 302(j), except that in addition to the disclosure 
requirements of such section 302(j), each Commission member shall 
disclose any financial interest or relationship in an organization or 
with an individual that is applying for funding from the Commission 
held by the Commission member, including an interest as an officer, 
director, trustee, partner, employee, contractor, agent, or other 
representative.''.

SEC. 3. NORTH PACIFIC RESEARCH BOARD.

    Subsection (e) of section 401 of the Department of the Interior and 
Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 1998 (43 U.S.C. 1474d(e)) is 
amended by striking paragraph (5) and inserting the following:
            ``(5) The Board may adopt such rules of procedure and 
        establish such committees as it deems necessary to carry out 
        the purposes of this title, including the conduct of 
        administrative duties between meetings.
            ``(6) All decisions of the Board shall be by majority vote 
        of the full board in regular session.
            ``(7) The Board shall adopt conflict of interest and 
        recusal provisions which at a minimum are substantially 
        equivalent to conflict of interest and recusal provisions set 
        forth in section 302(j) of the Magnuson-Stevens Fishery 
        Conservation and Management Act (16 U.S.C. 1852(j)) shall apply 
        to any decision by the Board and to all members of the Board as 
        if each member of the Board is an `affected individual' within 
        the meaning of such section 302(j), except that in addition to 
        the disclosure requirements of such section 302(j), each Board 
        member shall disclose any financial interest or relationship in 
        an organization or with an individual that is applying for 
        funding from the Board, including an interest as an officer, 
        director, trustee, partner, employee, contractor, agent, or 
        other representative.
            ``(8) The Secretary of Commerce may accept funds from a 
        source other than the Government of the United States to be 
        used by the Board to carry out the Board's functions.''.
                                                       Calendar No. 237

113th CONGRESS

  1st Session

                                S. 1344

                          [Report No. 113-117]

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL

To promote research, monitoring, and observation of the Arctic and for 
                            other purposes.

_______________________________________________________________________

                            November 6, 2013

                       Reported with an amendment
