
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H. Res. 722 Engrossed in House (EH)]

H. Res. 722

                In the House of Representatives, U. S.,

                                                    September 16, 2014.
    Resolved, That upon adoption of this resolution it shall be in order to 
consider in the House the joint resolution (H.J. Res. 124) making continuing 
appropriations for fiscal year 2015, and for other purposes. All points of order 
against consideration of the joint resolution are waived. The amendment printed 
in part A of the report of the Committee on Rules accompanying this resolution 
shall be considered as adopted. The joint resolution, as amended, shall be 
considered as read. All points of order against provisions in the joint 
resolution, as amended, are waived. The previous question shall be considered as 
ordered on the joint resolution, as amended, and on any further amendment 
thereto to final passage without intervening motion except: (1) one hour of 
debate equally divided and controlled by the chair and ranking minority member 
of the Committee on Appropriations; (2) the further amendment printed in part B 
of the report of the Committee on Rules, if offered by Representative McKeon of 
California or his designee, which shall be in order without intervention of any 
point of order, shall be considered as read, shall be separately debatable for 
six hours equally divided and controlled by Representative McKeon of California 
and Representative Smith of Washington or their respective designees, and shall 
not be subject to a demand for division of the question; and (3) one motion to 
recommit with or without instructions.
    Sec. 2.  Section 4(c) of House Resolution 567 is amended by adding the 
following new paragraph:
            ``(7) The provisions of paragraphs (f)(1) through (f)(12) of clause 
        4 of rule XI shall be considered to be written rules adopted by the 
        Select Committee as though pursuant to such clause.''.
            Attest:

                                                                          Clerk.
