
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[S. Res. 239 Introduced in Senate (IS)]

113th CONGRESS
  1st Session
S. RES. 239

  Authorizing expenditures by the Senate Committee on Indian Affairs.


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                           September 18, 2013

   Ms. Cantwell, from the Committee on Indian Affairs, reported the 
 following original resolution; which was referred to the Committee on 
                        Rules and Administration

_______________________________________________________________________

                               RESOLUTION


 
  Authorizing expenditures by the Senate Committee on Indian Affairs.

    Resolved, That, in carrying out its powers, duties, and functions 
imposed by section 105 of S. Res. 4, agreed to February 4, 1977 (95th 
Congress), and in exercising the authority conferred on it by that 
section, the Committee on Indian Affairs is authorized from October 1, 
2013, through September 30, 2014, and October 1, 2014, through February 
28, 2015, in its discretion (1) to make expenditures from the 
contingent fund of the Senate, (2) to employ personnel, and (3) with 
the prior consent of the Government department or agency concerned and 
the Committee on Rules and Administration, to use on a reimbursable, or 
non-reimbursable, basis the services of personnel of any such 
department or agency.
    Sec. 2. (a) For the period October 1, 2013, through September 30, 
2014, expenses of the committee under this resolution shall not exceed 
$2,009,768.00, of which amount (1) not to exceed $20,000 may be 
expended for the procurement of the services of individual consultants, 
or organizations thereof (as authorized by section 202(i) of the 
Legislative Reorganization Act of 1946, as amended), and (2) not to 
exceed $20,000 may be expended for the training of the professional 
staff of such committee (under procedures specified by section 202(j) 
of the Legislative Reorganization Act of 1946).
    (b) For the period October 1, 2014, through February 28, 2015, 
expenses of the committee under this resolution shall not exceed 
$837,403.00, of which amount (1) not to exceed $20,000 may be expended 
for the procurement of the services of individual consultants, or 
organizations thereof (as authorized by section 202(i) of the 
Legislative Reorganization Act of 1946, as amended), and (2) not to 
exceed $20,000 may be expended for the training of professional staff 
of such committee (under procedures specified by section 202(j) of the 
Legislative Reorganization Act of 1946).
    Sec. 3.  The committee shall report its findings, together with 
such recommendations for legislation as it deems advisable, to the 
Senate at the earliest practicable date, but not later than February 
28, 2015.
    Sec. 4.  Expenses of the committee under this resolution shall be 
paid from the contingent fund of the Senate upon vouchers approved by 
the Chairwoman of the committee, except that vouchers shall not be 
required (1) for the disbursement of the salaries of employees paid at 
an annual rate, or (2) for the payment of telecommunications provided 
by the Office of the Sergeant at Arms and Doorkeeper, United States 
Senate, or (3) for the payment of stationery supplies purchased through 
the Keeper of the Stationery, United States Senate, or (4) for payments 
to the Postmaster, United States Senate, or (5) for the payment of 
metered charges on copying equipment provided by the Office of the 
Sergeant at Arms and Doorkeeper, United States Senate, or (6) for the 
payment of Senate Recording and Photographic Services, or (7) for 
payment of franked and mass mail costs by the Sergeant at Arms and 
Doorkeeper, United States Senate.
    Sec. 5.  There are authorized such sums as may be necessary for 
agency contributions related to the compensation of employees of the 
committee from October 1, 2013, through September 30, 2014, and October 
1, 2014, through February 28, 2015, to be paid from the Appropriations 
account for Expenses of Inquiries and Investigations.
                                 <all>
