
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 4297 Introduced in House (IH)]

113th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                H. R. 4297

 To authorize a land exchange involving Fort Hood, Texas, and the City 
   of Copperas Cove, Texas, to support the city's efforts to improve 
  arterial transportation routes in the vicinity of Fort Hood and to 
                     promote economic development.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                             March 25, 2014

 Mr. Williams introduced the following bill; which was referred to the 
                      Committee on Armed Services

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
 To authorize a land exchange involving Fort Hood, Texas, and the City 
   of Copperas Cove, Texas, to support the city's efforts to improve 
  arterial transportation routes in the vicinity of Fort Hood and to 
                     promote economic development.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. LAND EXCHANGE, FORT HOOD, TEXAS.

    (a) Exchange Authorized.--The Secretary of the Army may convey to 
the City of Copperas Cove, Texas (in this section referred to as the 
``City''), all right, title, and interest of the United States in and 
to a parcel of real property, including any improvements thereon, 
consisting of approximately 300 acres at Fort Hood, Texas, for the 
purpose of permitting the City to improve arterial transportation 
routes in the vicinity of Fort Hood and to promote economic development 
in the area of the City and Fort Hood.
    (b) Consideration.--As consideration for the conveyance under 
subsection (a), the City shall convey to the Secretary of the Army all 
right, title, and interest of the City in and to one or more parcels of 
real property that are acceptable to the Secretary. The fair market 
value of the real property acquired by the Secretary under this 
subsection shall be at least equal to the fair market value of the real 
property conveyed under subsection (a), as determined by appraisals 
acceptable to the Secretary.
    (c) Description of Property.--The exact acreage and legal 
description of the real property to be exchanged under this section 
shall be determined by surveys satisfactory to the Secretary of the 
Army.
    (d) Payment of Costs of Conveyances.--
            (1) Payment required.--The Secretary of the Army shall 
        require the City to cover costs to be incurred by the 
        Secretary, or to reimburse the Secretary for costs incurred by 
        the Secretary, to carry out the conveyances under this section, 
        including survey costs related to the conveyances. If amounts 
        are collected from the City in advance of the Secretary 
        incurring the actual costs, and the amount collected exceeds 
        the costs actually incurred by the Secretary to carry out the 
        conveyances, the Secretary shall refund the excess amount to 
        the City.
            (2) Treatment of amounts received.--Amounts received under 
        paragraph (1) as reimbursement for costs incurred by the 
        Secretary to carry out the conveyances under this section shall 
        be credited to the fund or account that was used to cover the 
        costs incurred by the Secretary in carrying out the 
        conveyances. Amounts so credited shall be merged with amounts 
        in such fund or account and shall be available for the same 
        purposes, and subject to the same conditions and limitations, 
        as amounts in such fund or account.
    (e) Additional Term and Conditions.--The Secretary of the Army may 
require such additional terms and conditions in connection with the 
conveyances under this section as the Secretary considers appropriate 
to protect the interests of the United States.
                                 <all>
