
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[S. 1566 Considered and Passed Senate (CPS)]

113th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                S. 1566

   To extend the period during which Iraqis who were employed by the 
   United States Government in Iraq may be granted special immigrant 
status and to temporarily increase the fee or surcharge for processing 
                  machine-readable nonimmigrant visas.


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                           September 30, 2013

   Mrs. Shaheen (for herself, Mr. McCain, Mr. Leahy, Mr. Durbin, Mr. 
Graham, Mr. Kaine, and Mr. Cardin) introduced the following bill; which 
      was read twice, considered, read the third time, and passed

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
   To extend the period during which Iraqis who were employed by the 
   United States Government in Iraq may be granted special immigrant 
status and to temporarily increase the fee or surcharge for processing 
                  machine-readable nonimmigrant visas.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT-TERM EXTENSION OF SPECIAL IMMIGRANT PROGRAM.

    Section 1244(c)(3) of the National Defense Authorization Act for 
Fiscal Year 2008 (8 U.S.C. 1157 note) is amended by adding at the end 
the following:
                    ``(C) Fiscal year 2014.--
                            ``(i) In general.--Except as provided in 
                        clauses (ii) and (iii), the total number of 
                        principal aliens who may be provided special 
                        immigrant status under this section during the 
                        first 3 months of fiscal year 2014 shall be the 
                        sum of--
                                    ``(I) the number of aliens 
                                described in subsection (b) whose 
                                application for special immigrant 
                                status under this section is pending on 
                                September 30, 2013; and
                                    ``(II) 2,000.
                            ``(ii) Employment period.--The 1-year 
                        period during which the principal alien is 
                        required to have been employed by or on behalf 
                        of the United States Government in Iraq under 
                        subsection (b)(1)(B) shall begin on or after 
                        March 20, 2003, and end on or before September 
                        30, 2013.
                            ``(iii) Application deadline.--The 
                        principal alien seeking special immigrant 
                        status under this subparagraph shall apply to 
                        the Chief of Mission in accordance with 
                        subsection (b)(4) not later than December 31, 
                        2013.''.

SEC. 2. TEMPORARY FEE INCREASE FOR CERTAIN CONSULAR SERVICES.

    (a) In General.--Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the 
Secretary of State, not later than January 1, 2014, shall increase the 
fee or surcharge authorized under section 140(a) of the Foreign 
Relations Authorization Act, Fiscal Years 1994 and 1995 (Public Law 
103-236; 8 U.S.C. 1351 note) by $1 for processing machine-readable 
nonimmigrant visas and machine-readable combined border crossing 
identification cards and nonimmigrant visas.
    (b) Deposit of Amounts.--Notwithstanding section 140(a)(2) of the 
Foreign Relations Authorization Act, Fiscal Years 1994 and 1995 (Public 
Law 103-236; 8 U.S.C. 1351 note), the additional amount collected 
pursuant the fee increase authorized under subsection (a) shall be 
deposited in the general fund of the Treasury.
    (c) Sunset Provision.--The fee increase authorized under subsection 
(a) shall terminate on the date that is 2 years after the first date on 
which such increased fee is collected.
                                 <all>
