
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H. Res. 576 Engrossed in House (EH)]

H. Res. 576

                In the House of Representatives, U. S.,

                                                           May 8, 2014.
    Resolved, That at any time after adoption of this resolution the Speaker 
may, pursuant to clause 2(b) of rule XVIII, declare the House resolved into the 
Committee of the Whole House on the state of the Union for consideration of the 
bill (H.R. 10) to amend the charter school program under the Elementary and 
Secondary Education Act of 1965. The first reading of the bill shall be 
dispensed with. All points of order against consideration of the bill are 
waived. General debate shall be confined to the bill and shall not exceed 90 
minutes equally divided and controlled by the chair and ranking minority member 
of the Committee on Education and the Workforce. After general debate the bill 
shall be considered for amendment under the five-minute rule. It shall be in 
order to consider as an original bill for the purpose of amendment under the 
five-minute rule the amendment in the nature of a substitute recommended by the 
Committee on Education and the Workforce now printed in the bill. The committee 
amendment in the nature of a substitute shall be considered as read. All points 
of order against the committee amendment in the nature of a substitute are 
waived. No amendment to the committee amendment in the nature of a substitute 
shall be in order except those printed in part A of the report of the Committee 
on Rules accompanying this resolution. Each such amendment may be offered only 
in the order printed in the report, may be offered only by a Member designated 
in the report, shall be considered as read, shall be debatable for the time 
specified in the report equally divided and controlled by the proponent and an 
opponent, shall not be subject to amendment, and shall not be subject to a 
demand for division of the question in the House or in the Committee of the 
Whole. All points of order against such amendments are waived. At the conclusion 
of consideration of the bill for amendment the Committee shall rise and report 
the bill to the House with such amendments as may have been adopted. Any Member 
may demand a separate vote in the House on any amendment adopted in the 
Committee of the Whole to the bill or to the committee amendment in the nature 
of a substitute. The previous question shall be considered as ordered on the 
bill and amendments thereto to final passage without intervening motion except 
one motion to recommit with or without instructions.
    Sec. 2.  On any legislative day during the period from May 12, 2014, through 
May 16, 2014--
     (a) the Journal of the proceedings of the previous day shall be considered 
as approved; and
    (b) the Chair may at any time declare the House adjourned to meet at a date 
and time, within the limits of clause 4, section 5, article I of the 
Constitution, to be announced by the Chair in declaring the adjournment.
    Sec. 3.  The Speaker may appoint Members to perform the duties of the Chair 
for the duration of the period addressed by section 2 of this resolution as 
though under clause 8(a) of rule I.
    Sec. 4.  It shall be in order at any time on the legislative day of May 8, 
2014, for the Speaker to entertain motions that the House suspend the rules, as 
though under clause 1 of rule XV, relating to the bill (H.R. 4366) to strengthen 
the Federal education research system to make research and evaluations more 
timely and relevant to State and local needs in order to increase student 
achievement.
    Sec. 5.  The Committee on Appropriations may, at any time before 5 p.m. on 
Thursday, May 15, 2014, file privileged reports to accompany measures making 
appropriations for the fiscal year ending September 30, 2015.
    Sec. 6.  During consideration of the bill (H.R. 4438) to amend the Internal 
Revenue Code of 1986 to simplify and make permanent the research credit, 
pursuant to House Resolution 569, the further amendment printed in part B of the 
report of the Committee on Rules accompanying this resolution shall be 
considered as adopted at the end of the bill.
    Sec. 7.  House Resolution 569 is amended by striking ``90 minutes'' and 
inserting ``one hour''.
            Attest:

                                                                          Clerk.
