
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 2975 Introduced in House (IH)]

113th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                H. R. 2975

To amend the Public Health Service Act to authorize grants for training 
   and support services for Alzheimer's patients and their families.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                             August 1, 2013

 Ms. Waters (for herself, Mr. Smith of New Jersey, Mr. Van Hollen, Mr. 
   Grijalva, Ms. Bordallo, Mrs. Christensen, Mr. Lynch, Ms. Loretta 
Sanchez of California, Ms. Linda T. Sanchez of California, Ms. Jackson 
  Lee, Ms. Sewell of Alabama, Mr. Hastings of Florida, Ms. Wilson of 
  Florida, Mr. Payne, Ms. Norton, Ms. Brown of Florida, Mr. Carson of 
Indiana, Mr. Connolly, Mr. Rangel, Mr. Farr, Ms. Lee of California, Mr. 
  Hinojosa, Ms. McCollum, Mr. Polis, Mr. David Scott of Georgia, Ms. 
 Clarke, Mr. Ryan of Ohio, Mr. Keating, and Ms. Schakowsky) introduced 
 the following bill; which was referred to the Committee on Energy and 
                                Commerce

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
To amend the Public Health Service Act to authorize grants for training 
   and support services for Alzheimer's patients and their families.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Alzheimer's Caregiver Support Act''.

SEC. 2. GRANTS REGARDING TRAINING AND SUPPORT SERVICES FOR ALZHEIMER'S 
              PATIENTS AND THEIR FAMILIES.

    Part D of title III of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 
254b et seq.) is amended by inserting after section 330L the following:

``SEC. 330M. GRANTS REGARDING TRAINING AND SUPPORT SERVICES FOR 
              ALZHEIMER'S PATIENTS AND THEIR FAMILIES.

    ``(a) In General.--The Secretary may make grants to public and 
nonprofit private health care providers for the purpose of expanding 
training and support services for families and caregivers of patients 
with Alzheimer's disease.
    ``(b) Recipients of Grants.--The public and nonprofit private 
health care providers to whom grants may be made under subsection (a) 
include health care organizations, community health centers, nursing 
homes, senior centers, Area Agencies on Aging, community-based 
organizations, and State, local, and tribal health agencies and social 
service agencies.
    ``(c) Integration of Treatment, Training, and Support Services.--A 
condition for the receipt of a grant under subsection (a) is that the 
applicant involved agrees to employ a comprehensive approach to 
Alzheimer's care that integrates treatment of patients with Alzheimer's 
disease with training and support services for the patients' families 
and caregivers.
    ``(d) Coordination.--The Secretary shall coordinate with the Deputy 
Assistant Secretary for Women's Health and the Deputy Assistant 
Secretary for Minority Health in order to ensure that women, 
minorities, and patients who live in medically underserved communities 
(as defined in section 799B(6)) are able to benefit from the training 
and support services funded through grants under subsection (a).
    ``(e) Appropriate Cultural Context.--A condition for the receipt of 
a grant under subsection (a) is that the applicant involved agrees 
that, in any program to be funded by such grant, services will be 
provided in the languages most appropriate for, and with consideration 
for the cultural backgrounds of, the individuals for whom the services 
are provided.
    ``(f) Outreach Services.--A condition for the receipt of a grant 
under subsection (a) is that the applicant involved agrees to provide 
outreach activities to inform the public of the services of the 
program, and to provide information on Alzheimer's disease.
    ``(g) Application for Grant.--A grant may be made under subsection 
(a) only if an application for the grant is submitted to the Secretary 
and the application is in such form, is made in such manner, and 
contains such agreements, assurances, and information as the Secretary 
determines to be necessary to carry out this section.
    ``(h) Funding.--
            ``(1) Authorization of appropriations.--For the purpose of 
        carrying out this section, there are authorized to be 
        appropriated such sums as may be necessary for each of the 
        fiscal years 2014 through 2019.
            ``(2) Allocation for medically underserved communities.--Of 
        the amounts appropriated under paragraph (1) for a fiscal year, 
        the Secretary shall make available not less than 10 percent for 
        grants under subsection (a) to applicants that primarily serve 
        medically underserved communities, as defined in section 
        799B(6).''.
                                 <all>
