
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 4037 Introduced in House (IH)]

113th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                H. R. 4037

To amend title 38, United States Code, to make certain improvements in 
the laws administered by the Secretary of Veterans Affairs relating to 
    training and rehabilitation for veterans with service-connected 
                 disabilities, and for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                           February 11, 2014

  Mr. Flores introduced the following bill; which was referred to the 
                     Committee on Veterans' Affairs

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
To amend title 38, United States Code, to make certain improvements in 
the laws administered by the Secretary of Veterans Affairs relating to 
    training and rehabilitation for veterans with service-connected 
                 disabilities, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Improving Veterans' Access to 
Vocational Rehabilitation and Employment Act of 2014''.

SEC. 2. CALCULATION OF RATE OF VETERANS REHABILITATED TO THE POINT OF 
              EMPLOYABILITY.

    (a) In General.--Chapter 31 of title 38, United States Code, is 
amended by adding at the end the following new section:
``Sec. 3123. Calculation of rate of veterans rehabilitated to the point 
              of employability
    ``To calculate the rate of veterans whom the Secretary determines 
are rehabilitated to the point of employability under this chapter 
during a fiscal year, the Secretary shall divide--
            ``(1) the number of veterans who participated in vocational 
        rehabilitation programs under this chapter during such fiscal 
        year whom the Secretary determines to have been rehabilitated 
        to the point of employability; by
            ``(2) the sum of--
                    ``(A) the number of veterans who participated in 
                such programs during such fiscal year (regardless of 
                whether such a veteran first participated in such 
                programs during a previous fiscal year); and
                    ``(B) the number of veterans who were entitled to 
                participate in such programs during such fiscal year 
                but did not complete a program.''.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections at the beginning of 
such chapter is amended by adding after the item relating to section 
3122 the following new item:

``3123. Calculation of rate of veterans rehabilitated to the point of 
                            employability.''.

SEC. 3. APPROVAL OF COURSES OF EDUCATION AND TRAINING FOR PURPOSES OF 
              THE VOCATIONAL REHABILITATION PROGRAM OF THE DEPARTMENT 
              OF VETERANS AFFAIRS.

    (a) In General.--Section 3104(b) of title 38, United States Code, 
is amended by adding at the end the following new sentence: ``To the 
maximum extent practicable, a course of education or training may be 
pursued by a veteran as part of a rehabilitation program under this 
chapter only if the course is approved for purposes of chapter 30 or 33 
of this title. The Secretary may waive the requirement under the 
preceding sentence to the extent the Secretary determines 
appropriate.''.
    (b) Effective Date.--The amendment made by subsection (a) shall 
apply with respect to a course of education or training pursued by a 
veteran who first begins a program of rehabilitation under chapter 31 
of title 38, United States Code, on or after the date that is one year 
after the date of the enactment of this Act.

SEC. 4. ELIGIBILITY OF CERTAIN VETERANS ENROLLED IN VOCATIONAL 
              REHABILITATION PROGRAMS FOR SPECIALLY ADAPTED HOUSING 
              PROVIDED BY THE SECRETARY OF VETERANS AFFAIRS.

    Section 2101(b)(2) of title 38, United States Code, is amended by 
adding at the end the following new subparagraph:
            ``(D) The disability is a disability for which the veteran 
        is eligible for a rehabilitation program under chapter 31 of 
        this title and is referred for assistance under this section 
        pursuant to section 2107 of this title.''.

SEC. 5. AUTHORITY TO PRIORITIZE VOCATIONAL REHABILITATION SERVICES 
              BASED ON NEED.

    Section 3104 of title 38, United States Code, as amended by section 
3, is further amended by adding at the end the following new 
subsection:
    ``(c)(1) The Secretary shall have the authority to administer this 
chapter by prioritizing the provision of services under this chapter 
based on need, as determined by the Secretary. In evaluating need for 
purposes of this subsection, the Secretary shall consider disability 
ratings, the severity of employment handicaps, qualification for a 
program of independent living, income, and any other factor the 
Secretary determines appropriate.
    ``(2) Not later than 90 days before making any changes to the 
prioritization of the provision of services under this chapter as 
authorized under paragraph (1), the Secretary shall submit to Congress 
a plan describing such changes.''.

SEC. 6. MODIFICATION OF DEFINITION OF ``SERIOUS EMPLOYMENT HANDICAP''.

    Paragraph (7) of section 3101 of title 38, United States Code, is 
amended to read as follows:
            ``(7) The term `serious employment handicap' means a 
        significant impairment, resulting from the service-connected 
        disability, that is directly related to the veteran's ability 
        to prepare for, obtain, or retain employment consistent with 
        such veteran's abilities, aptitudes, and interests.''.
                                 <all>
