
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 4825 Introduced in House (IH)]

113th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                H. R. 4825

 To establish Presidential awards to recognize organizations that have 
made extraordinary efforts to create jobs and strengthen the economy of 
                           the United States.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                             June 10, 2014

  Mr. Nolan introduced the following bill; which was referred to the 
                    Committee on Energy and Commerce

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
 To establish Presidential awards to recognize organizations that have 
made extraordinary efforts to create jobs and strengthen the economy of 
                           the United States.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Presidential Make it in America 
Awards Act of 2014''.

SEC. 2. PRESIDENTIAL MAKE IT IN AMERICA AWARDS.

    (a) Establishment and Award Criteria.--There are established the 
following Presidential awards:
            (1) The Presidential Reshoring Award, which shall be 
        awarded to the best example of a United States company that 
        returns manufacturing jobs and operations from overseas to the 
        United States.
            (2) The Presidential Invest in America Award, which shall 
        be awarded to the best example of a United States company that 
        invests in significant new domestic manufacturing jobs and 
        operations.
            (3) The Presidential Foreign Direct Investment Award, which 
        shall be awarded to the best example of a foreign company that 
        invests in United States manufacturing jobs and operations.
    (b) Making and Presentation of Awards.--
            (1) Making of awards.--The President (on the basis of 
        recommendations received from the Secretary of Commerce 
        (hereafter in this section referred to as ``the Secretary'')), 
        or the Secretary, shall periodically make each of the awards 
        described in subsection (a) to a qualified organization in an 
        eligible category which in the judgment of the President or the 
        Secretary meets the relevant criteria described in paragraphs 
        (1) through (3) of subsection (a).
            (2) Presentation of awards.--The presentation of the awards 
        shall be made by the President or the Secretary with such 
        ceremonies as the President or the Secretary determine to be 
        appropriate.
    (c) Qualified Organization.--An organization may qualify for an 
award under this section only if it--
            (1) submits an application to the Secretary;
            (2) permits a rigorous evaluation of the way in which its 
        business and other operations have benefitted the economic or 
        social well-being of the United States; and
            (3) meets such requirements and specifications as the 
        Secretary determines to be appropriate to achieve the 
        objectives of this section.
    (d) Categories in Which Awards May Be Given.--
            (1) Eligible categories.--Subject to paragraph (2), each of 
        the awards described in subsection (a) may be awarded in each 
        of the following categories:
                    (A) Small business.
                    (B) Company or its subsidiary.
                    (C) Company which primarily provides services.
                    (D) Health care provider.
                    (E) Education provider.
                    (F) Nonprofit organization.
            (2) Modification of categories.--
                    (A) Upon a determination that the objectives of 
                this section would be better served thereby, the 
                Secretary may at any time expand, subdivide, or 
                otherwise modify the list of categories within which 
                awards may be made as initially in effect under 
                paragraph (1), and may establish separate award 
                categories for other organizations including units of 
                government.
                    (B) The expansion, subdivision, modification, or 
                establishment of award categories under subparagraph 
                (A) shall not be effective until the Secretary has 
                submitted a detailed description thereof to the 
                Congress and a period of 30 days has elapsed since that 
                submission.
            (3) Number of awards.--In any year, not more than 1 of each 
        award described in subsection (a) may be made to a qualified 
        organization in each eligible category. No award shall be made 
        within any category if there are no qualified organizations in 
        that category.
    (e) Publication of Award.--An organization to which an award is 
made under this section may publicize the receipt of the award by the 
organization and may use the award in advertising.
    (f) Information Sharing.--The Secretary shall publish on the 
website of the Department of Commerce information on the successful 
strategies and programs of organizations that receive awards under this 
section.
    (g) Funding.--The Secretary is authorized to seek and accept gifts 
from public and private sources to carry out the program under this 
section. If additional sums are needed to cover the full cost of the 
program, the Secretary shall impose fees upon the organizations 
applying for an award in amounts sufficient to provide such additional 
sums. The Secretary is authorized to use appropriated funds to carry 
out responsibilities under this Act.
    (h) Report.--The Secretary shall prepare and submit to the 
President and the Congress, not later than 3 years after the date of 
the enactment of this Act, a report on the effectiveness of the 
activities conducted under this section.
                                 <all>
