
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H. Res. 604 Engrossed in House (EH)]

H. Res. 604

                In the House of Representatives, U. S.,

                                                          May 30, 2014.
    Resolved, That at any time after adoption of this resolution the Speaker 
may, pursuant to clause 2(b) of rule XVIII, declare the House resolved into the 
Committee of the Whole House on the state of the Union for consideration of the 
bill (H.R. 4745) making appropriations for the Departments of Transportation, 
and Housing and Urban Development, and related agencies for the fiscal year 
ending September 30, 2015, and for other purposes. The first reading of the bill 
shall be dispensed with. All points of order against consideration of the bill 
are waived. General debate shall be confined to the bill and shall not exceed 
one hour equally divided and controlled by the chair and ranking minority member 
of the Committee on Appropriations. After general debate the bill shall be 
considered for amendment under the five-minute rule. Points of order against 
provisions in the bill for failure to comply with clause 2 of rule XXI are 
waived. During consideration of the bill for amendment, the chair of the 
Committee of the Whole may accord priority in recognition on the basis of 
whether the Member offering an amendment has caused it to be printed in the 
portion of the Congressional Record designated for that purpose in clause 8 of 
rule XVIII. Amendments so printed shall be considered as read. When the 
committee rises and reports the bill back to the House with a recommendation 
that the bill do pass, the previous question shall be considered as ordered on 
the bill and amendments thereto to final passage without intervening motion 
except one motion to recommit with or without instructions.
    Sec. 2. (a) At any time after adoption of this resolution the Speaker may, 
pursuant to clause 2(b) of rule XVIII, declare the House resolved into the 
Committee of the Whole House on the state of the Union for consideration of the 
bill (H.R. 4681) to authorize appropriations for fiscal years 2014 and 2015 for 
intelligence and intelligence-related activities of the United States 
Government, the Community Management Account, and the Central Intelligence 
Agency Retirement and Disability System, and for other purposes. The first 
reading of the bill shall be dispensed with. All points of order against 
consideration of the bill are waived. General debate shall be confined to the 
bill and amendments specified in this resolution and shall not exceed one hour 
equally divided and controlled by the chair and ranking minority member of the 
Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence. After general debate the bill shall 
be considered for amendment under the five-minute rule.
    (b) In lieu of the amendment in the nature of a substitute recommended by 
the Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence now printed in the bill, it shall 
be in order to consider as an original bill for the purpose of amendment under 
the five-minute rule an amendment in the nature of a substitute consisting of 
the text of Rules Committee Print 113-45. That amendment in the nature of a 
substitute shall be considered as read. All points of order against that 
amendment in the nature of a substitute are waived.
    (c) No amendment to the amendment in the nature of a substitute made in 
order as original text shall be in order except those printed in the report of 
the Committee on Rules accompanying this resolution and amendments en bloc 
described in subsection (f).
    (d) Each amendment printed in the report of the Committee on Rules shall be 
considered only in the order printed in the report, may be offered only by a 
Member designated in the report, shall be considered as read, shall be debatable 
for the time specified in the report equally divided and controlled by the 
proponent and an opponent, shall not be subject to amendment, and shall not be 
subject to a demand for division of the question in the House or in the 
Committee of the Whole.
    (e) All points of order against amendments printed in the report of the 
Committee on Rules or amendments en bloc described in subsection (f) are waived.
    (f) It shall be in order at any time for the chair of the Permanent Select 
Committee on Intelligence or his designee to offer amendments en bloc consisting 
of amendments printed in the report of the Committee on Rules not earlier 
disposed of. Amendments en bloc offered pursuant to this subsection shall be 
considered as read, shall be debatable for 20 minutes equally divided and 
controlled by the chair and ranking minority member of the Permanent Select 
Committee on Intelligence or their designees, shall not be subject to amendment, 
and shall not be subject to a demand for division of the question in the House 
or in the Committee of the Whole.
    (g) At the conclusion of consideration of the bill for amendment the 
Committee shall rise and report the bill to the House with such amendments as 
may have been adopted. Any Member may demand a separate vote in the House on any 
amendment adopted in the Committee of the Whole to the bill or to the amendment 
in the nature of a substitute made in order as original text. The previous 
question shall be considered as ordered on the bill and amendments thereto to 
final passage without intervening motion except one motion to recommit with or 
without instructions.
    Sec. 3.  On any legislative day during the period from June 2, 2014, through 
June 6, 2014--
     (a) the Journal of the proceedings of the previous day shall be considered 
as approved; and
    (b) the Chair may at any time declare the House adjourned to meet at a date 
and time, within the limits of clause 4, section 5, article I of the 
Constitution, to be announced by the Chair in declaring the adjournment.
    Sec. 4.  The Speaker may appoint Members to perform the duties of the Chair 
for the duration of the period addressed by section 3 of this resolution as 
though under clause 8(a) of rule I.
    Sec. 5.  The Committee on Appropriations may, at any time before 5 p.m. on 
Wednesday, June 4, 2014, file privileged reports to accompany measures making 
appropriations for the fiscal year ending September 30, 2015.
    Sec. 6.  House Resolution 567 is amended by adding the following:

``SEC. 7. TRAVEL.

    ``Clauses 8(a), (b), and (c) of rule X of the Rules of the House of 
Representatives shall apply to the Select Committee.''.
            Attest:

                                                                          Clerk.
