
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[S. Res. 243 Introduced in Senate (IS)]

113th CONGRESS
  1st Session
S. RES. 243

    Authorizing expenditures by the Committee on Veterans' Affairs.


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                           September 19, 2013

  Mr. Sanders, from the Committee on Veterans' Affairs, reported the 
 following original resolution; which was referred to the Committee on 
                        Rules and Administration

_______________________________________________________________________

                               RESOLUTION


 
    Authorizing expenditures by the Committee on Veterans' Affairs.

    Resolved, That, in carrying out its powers, duties, and functions 
under the Standing Rules of the Senate, in accordance with its 
jurisdiction under Rule XXV of such rules, including holding hearings, 
reporting such hearings, and making investigations as authorized by 
paragraphs 1 and 8 of Rule XXVI of the Standing Rules of the Senate, 
the Committee on Veterans' Affairs is authorized from October 1, 2013, 
through September 30, 2014, and October 1, 2014, through February 28, 
2015, in its discretion (1) to make expenditures from the contingent 
fund of the Senate, (2) to employ personnel, and (3) with the prior 
consent of the Government department or agency concerned and the 
Committee on Rules and Administration, to use on a reimbursable or non-
reimbursable basis the services of personnel of any such department or 
agency.
    Sec. 2. (a) The expenses of the committee for the period October 1, 
2013, through September 30, 2014, under this resolution shall not 
exceed $2,178,117, of which amount (1) not to exceed $50,000 may be 
expended for the procurement of the services of individual consultants, 
or organizations thereof (as authorized by section 202(i) of the 
Legislative Reorganization Act of 1946 (2 U.S.C. 72a(i))), and (2) not 
to exceed $9,500 may be expended for the training of the professional 
staff of such committee (under procedures specified by section 202(j) 
of the Legislative Reorganization Act of 1946 (2 U.S.C. 72a(j))).
    (b) For the period October 1, 2014, through February 28, 2015, 
expenses of the committee under this resolution shall not exceed 
$907,549, of which amount (1) not to exceed $21,000 may be expended for 
the procurement of the services of individual consultants, or 
organizations thereof (as authorized by section 202(i) of the 
Legislative Reorganization Act of 1946 (2 U.S.C. 72a(i))), and (2) not 
to exceed $3,500 may be expended for the training of the professional 
staff of such committee (under procedures specified by section 202(j) 
of the Legislative Reorganization Act of 1946 (2 U.S.C. 72a(j))).
    Sec. 3.  The committee shall report its findings, together with 
such recommendations for legislation as it deems advisable, to the 
Senate at the earliest practicable date, but not later than February 
28, 2015.
    Sec. 4.  Expenses of the committee under this resolution shall be 
paid from the contingent fund of the Senate upon vouchers approved by 
the chairman of the committee, except that vouchers shall not be 
required (1) for the disbursement of salaries of employees paid at an 
annual rate, or (2) for the payment of telecommunications provided by 
the Office of the Sergeant at Arms and Doorkeeper, United States 
Senate, or (3) for the payment of stationery supplies purchased through 
the Keeper of the Stationery, United States Senate, or (4) for payments 
to the Postmaster, United States Senate, or (5) for the payment of 
metered charges on copying equipment provided by the Office of the 
Sergeant at Arms and Doorkeeper, United States Senate, or (6) for the 
payment of Senate Recording and Photographic Services, or (7) for 
payment of franked and mass mail costs by the Sergeant at Arms and 
Doorkeeper, United States Senate.
    Sec. 5.  There are authorized such sums as may be necessary for 
agency contributions related to the compensation of employees of the 
committee from October 1, 2013, through September 30, 2014, and October 
1, 2014, through February 28, 2015, to be paid from the Appropriations 
account for ``Expenses of Inquiries and Investigations''.
                                 <all>
