
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 3326 Referred in Senate (RFS)]

113th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                H. R. 3326


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                           November 17, 2014

   Received; read twice and referred to the Committee on Energy and 
                           Natural Resources

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 AN ACT


 
 To provide for an exchange of land between the United States and the 
   Trinity Public Utilities District of Trinity County, California, 
  involving a parcel of National Forest System land in Shasta-Trinity 
                            National Forest.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Trinity County Land Exchange Act of 
2014''.

SEC. 2. LAND EXCHANGE, TRINITY PUBLIC UTILITIES DISTRICT, TRINITY 
              COUNTY, CALIFORNIA, THE BUREAU OF LAND MANAGEMENT, AND 
              THE FOREST SERVICE.

    (a) Land Exchange Required.--If not later than 3 years after 
enactment of this Act, the Utilities District conveys to the Secretary 
of the Interior all right, title, and interest of the Utilities 
District in and to Parcel A, subject to such terms and conditions as 
the Secretary of the Interior may require, the Secretary of Agriculture 
shall convey Parcel B to the Utilities District, subject to such terms 
and conditions as the Secretary of Agriculture may require, including 
the reservation of easements for all roads and trails considered to be 
necessary for administrative purposes and to ensure public access to 
National Forest System lands.
    (b) Availability of Maps and Legal Descriptions.--Maps are entitled 
``Trinity County Land Exchange Act of 2014 - Parcel A'' and ``Trinity 
County Land Exchange Act of 2014 - Parcel B'', both dated March 24, 
2014. The maps shall be on file and available for public inspection in 
the Office of the Chief of the Forest Service and the appropriate 
office of the Bureau of Land Management. With the agreement of the 
parties to the conveyances under subsection (a), the Secretary of the 
Interior and the Secretary of Agriculture may make technical 
corrections to the maps and legal descriptions.
    (c) Equal Value Exchange.--
            (1) Land exchange process.--The land exchange under this 
        section shall be an equal value exchange. Except as provided in 
        paragraph (3), the Secretary of the Interior and the Secretary 
        of Agriculture shall carry out the land exchange in accordance 
        with section 206 of the Federal Land Policy and Management Act 
        of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1716).
            (2) Appraisal of parcels.--The values of Parcel A and 
        Parcel B shall by determined by appraisals performed by a 
        qualified appraiser mutually agreed to by the parties to the 
        conveyances under subsection (a). The appraisals shall be 
        approved by the Secretary of Interior and the Secretary of 
        Agriculture and conducted in conformity with the Uniform 
        Appraisal Standards for Federal Land.
            (3) Cash equalization.--If the values of Parcel A and 
        Parcel B are not equal, the values may be equalized through the 
        use of a cash equalization payment, however, if the final 
        appraised value of Parcel A exceeds the value of Parcel B, the 
        surplus value of Parcel A shall be considered to be a donation 
        by the Utilities District. Notwithstanding section 206(b) of 
        the Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 
        1716(b)), a cash equalization payment may be made in excess of 
        25 percent of the appraised value of the Parcel B.
    (d) Disposition of Proceeds.--
            (1) In general.--Any cash equalization payment received by 
        the United States under subsection (c) shall be deposited in 
        the fund established under Public Law 90-171 (16 U.S.C. 484a; 
        commonly known as the Sisk Act).
            (2) Use of proceeds.--Amounts deposited under paragraph (1) 
        shall be available to the Secretary of Agriculture, without 
        further appropriation and until expended, for the improvement, 
        maintenance, reconstruction, or construction of a facility or 
        improvement for the National Forest System.
    (e) Survey.--The exact acreage and legal description of Parcel A 
and Parcel B shall be determined by a survey satisfactory to the 
Secretary of the Interior and the Secretary of Agriculture.
    (f) Costs.--As a condition of the land exchange under subsection 
(a), the Utilities District shall pay the costs associated with--
            (1) the surveys described in subsection (e);
            (2) the appraisals described in subsection (c)(2); and
            (3) any other reasonable administrative or remediation cost 
        determined by the Secretary of Agriculture.
    (g) Management of Acquired Land.--Upon the acquisition of Parcel A, 
the Secretary of the Interior, acting through the Redding Field Office 
of the Bureau of Land Management, shall administer Parcel A as public 
land in accordance with the Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 
1976 (43 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.) and the laws and regulations applicable 
to public land administered by the Bureau of Land Management, except 
that public recreation and public access to and for recreation shall be 
the highest and best use of Parcel A.
    (h) Completion of Land Exchange.--Once the Utilities District 
offers to convey Parcel A to the Secretary of the Interior, the 
Secretary of Agriculture shall complete the conveyance of Parcel B not 
later than 1 year after the date of enactment of this Act.
    (i) Definitions.--For the purposes of this section:
            (1) Parcel A.--The term ``Parcel A'' means the 
        approximately 47 acres of land, known as the ``Sky Ranch 
        parcel'', adjacent to public land administered by the Redding 
        Field Office of the Bureau of Land Management as depicted on 
        the map entitled ``Trinity County Land Exchange Act of 2014 - 
        Parcel A'', dated March 24, 2014, more particularly described 
        as a portion of Mineral Survey 178, south Highway 299, 
        generally located in the S1/2 of the S1/2 of Section 7 and the 
        N1/2 of the N1/2 of Section 8, Township 33 North, Range 10 
        West, Mount Diablo Meridian.
            (2) Parcel B.--The term ``Parcel B'' means the 
        approximately 100 acres land in the Shasta-Trinity National 
        Forest in the State of California near the Weaverville Airport 
        in Trinity County as depicted on the map entitled ``Trinity 
        County Land Exchange Act of 2014 - Parcel B'' dated March 24, 
        2014, more particularly described as Lot 8, SW1/4 SE1/4, and 
        S1/2 N1/2 SE, Section 31, Township 34 North, Range 9 West, 
        Mount Diablo Meridian.
            (3) Utilities district.--The term ``Utilities District'' 
        means the Trinity Public Utilities District of Trinity County, 
        California.

            Passed the House of Representatives November 13, 2014.

            Attest:

                                                 KAREN L. HAAS,

                                                                 Clerk.
