
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 4844 Introduced in House (IH)]

113th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                H. R. 4844

 To take certain property in McIntosh County, Oklahoma, into trust for 
  the benefit of the Muscogee (Creek) Nation, and for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                             June 11, 2014

  Mr. Mullin introduced the following bill; which was referred to the 
             Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
 To take certain property in McIntosh County, Oklahoma, into trust for 
  the benefit of the Muscogee (Creek) Nation, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Fountainhead Property Land Transfer 
Act''.

SEC. 2. TRANSFER OF LAND; LAND INTO TRUST.

    (a) In General.--Immediately after completion of the survey 
required under subsection (b), the receipt of consideration and costs 
required under subsection (c), and satisfaction of all terms specified 
by the Secretary and the Secretary of the Army under subsection (d), 
administrative jurisdiction of the Property shall be transferred from 
the Secretary of the Army to the Secretary, and the Secretary shall 
take the Property into trust for the benefit of the tribe.
    (b) Survey.--The exact acreage and legal description of the 
Property shall be determined by a survey satisfactory to the Secretary 
and the Secretary of the Army.
    (c) Consideration; Costs.--The tribe shall pay--
            (1) to the Secretary of the Army fair market value of the 
        Property, as determined by the Secretary of the Army; and
            (2) all costs and administrative expenses associated with 
        the transfer of administrative jurisdiction of the Property and 
        taking the Property into trust pursuant to subsection (a), 
        including costs of the survey provided for in subsection (b) 
        and any environmental remediation.
    (d) Other Terms and Conditions.--The transfer of administrative 
jurisdiction of the Property and taking the Property into trust shall 
be subject to such other terms and conditions as the Secretary and the 
Secretary of the Army consider appropriate to protect the interests of 
the United States, including reservation of flowage easements 
consistent with the Acquisition Guide Line for Flowage Easement for the 
Lake Eufaula project and other applicable policies for that project.
    (e) Definitions.--For the purposes of this section:
            (1) Property.--The term ``Property'' means, subject to 
        valid existing rights, all right, title, and interest of the 
        United States in and to the approximately 18.33 acres of 
        Federal land depicted as ``USACE'' on the map titled ``Muscogee 
        (Creek) Nation Proposed Land Acquisition'' and dated May 23, 
        2014.
            (2) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary 
        of the Interior.
            (3) Tribe.--The term ``tribe'' means the Muscogee (Creek) 
        Nation.
    (f) Gaming Prohibition.--The tribe may not conduct on any land 
taken into trust pursuant to this Act any gaming activities--
            (1) as a matter of claimed inherent authority; or
            (2) under any Federal law, including the Indian Gaming 
        Regulatory Act (25 U.S.C. 2701 et seq.) and any regulations 
        promulgated by the Secretary or the National Indian Gaming 
        Commission pursuant to that Act.
    (g) Savings Provision.--Nothing in this section shall be construed 
to affect or limit the application of, or any obligation to comply 
with, any environmental law, including the Comprehensive Environmental 
Response, Compensation, and Liability Act of 1980 (42 U.S.C. 9601 et 
seq.).
                                 <all>
