
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 1190 Introduced in House (IH)]

113th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                H. R. 1190

 To provide that the Secretary of the Interior may accept bids on any 
  new oil and gas leases of Federal lands (including submerged lands) 
  only from bidders certifying that all oil produced pursuant to such 
  leases, and all refined petroleum products produced from such oil, 
  shall be offered for sale only in the United States, and for other 
                               purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                             March 14, 2013

 Mr. Markey (for himself and Mr. Holt) introduced the following bill; 
        which was referred to the Committee on Natural Resources

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
 To provide that the Secretary of the Interior may accept bids on any 
  new oil and gas leases of Federal lands (including submerged lands) 
  only from bidders certifying that all oil produced pursuant to such 
  leases, and all refined petroleum products produced from such oil, 
  shall be offered for sale only in the United States, and for other 
                               purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Keep America's Oil Here Act''.

SEC. 2. FINDINGS.

    The Congress finds the following:
            (1) The United States is taking a number of steps to reduce 
        domestic consumption of oil.
            (2) In 2007, the Congress passed the Energy Independence 
        and Security Act of 2007 (Public Law 110-140), which increased 
        fuel economy standards to at least 35 miles per gallon by 2020 
        and established renewable fuel standards to ensure that enough 
        renewable fuel is produced by 2022 to reduce the need for 1.6 
        million barrels of oil per day. These programs to reduce our 
        domestic oil consumption have yet to be fully implemented.
            (3) The administration of President Obama is accelerating 
        the implementation of the fuel economy standards and greenhouse 
        gas emission standards.
            (4) In 2010, the President issued a rule that required 
        increased fuel economy and decreased global warming emissions 
        for light-duty vehicles produced in model years 2012-2016. This 
        rule is in the process of being implemented, and will reduce 
        the need for an additional 1.9 million barrels of oil per day 
        by 2030 and reduce the need for 2.3 million barrels of oil per 
        day by 2040.
            (5) In 2012, the President issued a final rule to implement 
        increased fuel economy and reduced global warming emissions for 
        light duty vehicles produced in model years 2017 through 2025. 
        This rule, once fully implemented, will reduce the need for an 
        additional 1.5 million barrels of oil per day by 2030 and 
        reduce the need for 2.4 million barrels of oil per day by 2040.
            (6) These actions will help reduce domestic consumption of 
        crude oil, which is an exhaustible natural resource. These 
        measures represent only a portion of Federal Government efforts 
        to assist economic growth and reduce economic pressures 
        relating to high oil prices.
            (7) As the result of actions undertaken by the Congress and 
        the executive branch, domestic oil production has ramped up 
        considerably. Crude oil production in the United States is at 
        its highest level in 15 years, while production of oil and 
        natural gas liquids combined is at its highest level in 20 
        years. Domestic oil production is expected to continue rising 
        through 2020. Restrictions on exports of oil produced on public 
        lands are a necessary and appropriate complement to energy 
        efficiency measures and will help to ensure a reliable and 
        affordable supply of such oil and refined products from such 
        oil.

SEC. 3. NO FOREIGN SALES OF OIL PRODUCED ON FEDERAL LANDS.

    The Secretary of the Interior may accept bids on any new oil and 
gas leases of Federal lands (including submerged lands) under the 
Mineral Leasing Act (30 U.S.C. 181 et seq.) or the Outer Continental 
Shelf Lands Act (43 U.S.C. 1331 et seq.) only from bidders certifying 
that all crude oil produced under such leases, and all refined 
petroleum products produced from such crude oil, shall be offered for 
sale only in the United States.

SEC. 4. WAIVER.

    The President may provide for waiver of the application of section 
3 with respect to a lease in a case in which--
            (1) the President determines that such a waiver is in the 
        national interest because it--
                    (A) will not lead to an increase in domestic 
                consumption of crude oil obtained from countries 
                hostile to United States interests or that have 
                political and economic instability that compromises 
                energy supply security;
                    (B) will not lead to higher costs to oil refiners 
                that purchase the crude oil than such refiners would 
                have to pay for crude oil in the absence of such a 
                waiver; and
                    (C) will not lead to higher gasoline costs paid by 
                consumers than consumers would have to pay in the 
                absence of such a waiver;
            (2) an exchange of crude oil or refined petroleum products 
        provides for no net loss of crude oil or refined petroleum 
        products, respectively, consumed domestically;
            (3) a waiver is necessary under the Constitution, a law, or 
        an international agreement; or
            (4) a standing trade agreement with a North American 
        trading partner allows for such exports, and all crude oil and 
        refined petroleum products exported under such a waiver will be 
        consumed in North America.

SEC. 5. SUNSET.

    (a) In General.--This Act, including any certification made 
pursuant to this Act, shall have no force or effect after the 
expiration of the 10-year period beginning on the date of enactment of 
this Act.
    (b) Report.--Two years before the end of the period referred to in 
subsection (a), the Secretary of the Interior and the Comptroller 
General of the United States shall each submit a report to the Congress 
on the impact of this Act on oil production on Federal lands, 
consumption of oil and refined petroleum products in the United States, 
and prices and markets for oil and refined petroleum products in the 
United States.

SEC. 6. REFINED PETROLEUM PRODUCT DEFINED.

    In this Act the term ``refined petroleum product'' means any of the 
following:
            (1) Finished reformulated or conventional motor gasoline.
            (2) Finished aviation gasoline.
            (3) Kerosene-type jet fuel.
            (4) Kerosene.
            (5) Distillate fuel oil.
            (6) Residual fuel oil.
            (7) Lubricants.
            (8) Waxes.
            (9) Petroleum coke.
            (10) Asphalt and road oil.
                                 <all>
