
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H. Res. 475 Engrossed in House (EH)]

H. Res. 475

                In the House of Representatives, U. S.,

                                                     February 11, 2014.
    Resolved, That at any time after adoption of this resolution the Speaker 
may, pursuant to clause 2(b) of rule XVIII, declare the House resolved into the 
Committee of the Whole House on the state of the Union for consideration of the 
bill (H.R. 3193) to amend the Consumer Financial Protection Act of 2010 to 
strengthen the review authority of the Financial Stability Oversight Council of 
regulations issued by the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection, and for other 
purposes. The first reading of the bill shall be dispensed with. All points of 
order against consideration of the bill are waived. General debate shall be 
confined to the bill and amendments specified in this section and shall not 
exceed one hour equally divided and controlled by the chair and ranking minority 
member of the Committee on Financial Services. After general debate the bill 
shall be considered for amendment under the five-minute rule. It shall be in 
order to consider as an original bill for the purpose of amendment under the 
five-minute rule an amendment in the nature of a substitute consisting of the 
text of Rules Committee Print 113-36 modified by the amendment printed in part A 
of the report of the Committee on Rules accompanying this resolution. That 
amendment in the nature of a substitute shall be considered as read. All points 
of order against that amendment in the nature of a substitute are waived. No 
amendment to that amendment in the nature of a substitute shall be in order 
except those printed in part B of the report of the Committee on Rules 
accompanying this resolution. Each such amendment may be offered only in the 
order printed in the report, may be offered only by a Member designated in the 
report, shall be considered as read, shall be debatable for the time specified 
in the report equally divided and controlled by the proponent and an opponent, 
shall not be subject to amendment, and shall not be subject to a demand for 
division of the question in the House or in the Committee of the Whole. All 
points of order against such amendments are waived. At the conclusion of 
consideration of the bill for amendment the Committee shall rise and report the 
bill to the House with such amendments as may have been adopted. Any Member may 
demand a separate vote in the House on any amendment adopted in the Committee of 
the Whole to the bill or to the amendment in the nature of a substitute made in 
order as original text. The previous question shall be considered as ordered on 
the bill and amendments thereto to final passage without intervening motion 
except one motion to recommit with or without instructions.
    Sec. 2.  On any legislative day during the period from February 12, 2014, 
through February 24, 2014--
     (a) the Journal of the proceedings of the previous day shall be considered 
as approved; and
    (b) the Chair may at any time declare the House adjourned to meet at a date 
and time, within the limits of clause 4, section 5, article I of the 
Constitution, to be announced by the Chair in declaring the adjournment.
    Sec. 3.  The Speaker may appoint Members to perform the duties of the Chair 
for the duration of the period addressed by section 2 of this resolution as 
though under clause 8(a) of rule I.
    Sec. 4.  The requirement of clause 6(a) of rule XIII for a two-thirds vote 
to consider a report from the Committee on Rules on the same day it is presented 
to the House is waived with respect to any resolution reported through the 
legislative day of February 12, 2014, providing for consideration or disposition 
of a measure relating to the public debt limit.
            Attest:

                                                                          Clerk.
