
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 3307 Introduced in House (IH)]

113th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                H. R. 3307

 To authorize microenterprise assistance for renewable energy projects 
                        in developing countries.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                            October 22, 2013

  Mr. Israel introduced the following bill; which was referred to the 
                      Committee on Foreign Affairs

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
 To authorize microenterprise assistance for renewable energy projects 
                        in developing countries.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may cited as the ``Solar Villages Initiative Act''.

SEC. 2. MICROENTERPRISE ASSISTANCE FOR RENEWABLE ENERGY PROJECTS IN 
              DEVELOPING COUNTRIES.

    (a) In General.--The President, acting through the Administrator of 
the United States Agency for International Development and in 
consultation with the Secretary of State and the Secretary of Energy, 
is authorized to provide assistance for renewable energy projects 
described in subsection (b) in developing countries to increase the 
availability of credit, savings, and other services to microfinance and 
microenterprise clients lacking full access to capital, training, 
technical assistance, and business development services.
    (b) Types of Projects.--The renewable energy projects described in 
this subsection include projects to assist small and micro businesses 
that loan or sell solar lanterns or lamps and other solar energy 
technologies.
    (c) Priority.--In providing assistance under subsection (a), the 
President shall give priority to empowering female-owned businesses in 
developing countries.
    (d) Relation to Existing Authorities.--Assistance provided under 
subsection (a) shall be made available under the authorities of section 
252 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 2211a).
    (e) Authorization of Appropriations.--There is authorized to be 
appropriated to the President to carry out this section $5,000,000 for 
fiscal year 2015, $5,000,000 for fiscal year 2016, $7,500,000 for 
fiscal year 2017, $7,500,000 for fiscal year 2018, $10,000,000 for 
fiscal year 2019, and $15,000,000 for fiscal year 2020.
                                 <all>
