
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[S. 2554 Placed on Calendar Senate (PCS)]

                                                       Calendar No. 446
113th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                S. 2554

                          [Report No. 113-200]

                  To approve the Keystone XL Pipeline.


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                             June 26, 2014

   Ms. Landrieu, from the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources, 
 reported the following original bill; which was read twice and placed 
                            on the calendar

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
                  To approve the Keystone XL Pipeline.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Keystone XL Pipeline Approval Act''.

SEC. 2. KEYSTONE XL APPROVAL.

    (a) In General.--TransCanada Keystone Pipeline, L.P. may construct, 
connect, operate, and maintain the pipeline and cross-border facilities 
described in the application filed on May 4, 2012, by TransCanada 
Corporation to the Department of State (including any subsequent 
revision to the pipeline route within the State of Nebraska required or 
authorized by the State of Nebraska).
    (b) Environmental Impact Statement.--The Final Supplemental 
Environmental Impact Statement issued by the Secretary of State in 
January 2014, regarding the pipeline referred to in subsection (a), and 
the environmental analysis, consultation, and review described in that 
document (including appendices) shall be considered to fully satisfy--
            (1) all requirements of the National Environmental Policy 
        Act of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 4321 et seq.); and
            (2) any other provision of law that requires Federal agency 
        consultation or review (including the consultation or review 
        required under section 7(a) of the Endangered Species Act of 
        1973 (16 U.S.C. 1536(a))) with respect to the pipeline and 
        facilities referred to in subsection (a).
    (c) Permits.--Any Federal permit or authorization issued before the 
date of enactment of this Act for the pipeline and cross-border 
facilities referred to in subsection (a) shall remain in effect.
    (d) Judicial Review.--Except for review in the Supreme Court of the 
United States, the United States Court of Appeals for the District of 
Columbia Circuit shall have original and exclusive jurisdiction over 
any civil action for the review of an order or action of a Federal 
agency regarding the pipeline and cross-border facilities described in 
subsection (a), and the related facilities in the United States, that 
are approved by this Act (including any order granting a permit or 
right-of-way, or any other agency action taken to construct or complete 
the project pursuant to Federal law).
    (e) Private Property Savings Clause.--Nothing in this Act alters 
any Federal, State, or local process or condition in effect on the date 
of enactment of this Act that is necessary to secure access from an 
owner of private property to construct the pipeline and cross-border 
facilities described in subsection (a).
                                                       Calendar No. 446

113th CONGRESS

  2d Session

                                S. 2554

                          [Report No. 113-200]

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL

                  To approve the Keystone XL Pipeline.

_______________________________________________________________________

                             June 26, 2014

                 Read twice and placed on the calendar
