
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 4121 Reported in House (RH)]

                                                 Union Calendar No. 341
113th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                H. R. 4121

                          [Report No. 113-461]

 To amend the Small Business Act to provide for improvements to small 
                     business development centers.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                           February 28, 2014

Ms. Velazquez introduced the following bill; which was referred to the 
                      Committee on Small Business

                              May 21, 2014

               Additional sponsor: Mr. Murphy of Florida

                              May 21, 2014

Committed to the Committee of the Whole House on the State of the Union 
                       and ordered to be printed
 [Strike out all after the enacting clause and insert the part printed 
                               in italic]
    [For text of introduced bill, see copy of bill as introduced on 
                           February 28, 2014]


_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
 To amend the Small Business Act to provide for improvements to small 
                     business development centers.


 


    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Small Business Development Centers 
Improvement Act of 2014''.

SEC. 2. USE OF AUTHORIZED ENTREPRENEURIAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS.

    The Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 631 et seq.) is amended by adding 
at the end the following:

``SEC. 48. USE OF AUTHORIZED ENTREPRENEURIAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS.

    ``(a) Expanded Support for Entrerpreneurs.--
            ``(1) In general.--Notwithstanding any other provision of 
        law, the Administrator shall only use the programs authorized 
        in sections 7(j), 7(m), 8(a), 8(b)(1), 21, 22, 29, and 32 of 
        this Act, and sections 358 and 389 of the Small Business 
        Investment Act to deliver entrepreneurial development services, 
        entrepreneurial education, business incubation services, growth 
        acceleration services, support for the development and 
        maintenance of clusters, or business training.
            ``(2) Exception.--This section shall not apply to services 
        provided to assist small business concerns owned by an Indian 
        tribe.
    ``(b) Annual Report.--Beginning on the first December 1 after the 
date of enactment of this subsection, the Administrator shall annually 
report to the Committee on Small Business of the House of 
Representatives and the Committee on Small Business and 
Entrepreneurship of the Senate on all entrepreneurial development 
activities undertaken in the current fiscal year. This report shall 
include--
            ``(1) a description and operating details for each program 
        and activity;
            ``(2) operating circulars, manuals, and standard operating 
        procedures for each program and activity;
            ``(3) a description of the process used to award grants 
        under each program and activity;
            ``(4) a list of all awardees, contractors, and vendors 
        (including organization name and location) and the amount of 
        awards for the current fiscal year for each program and 
        activity;
            ``(5) the amount of funding obligated for the current 
        fiscal year for each program and activity; and
            ``(6) the names and titles for those individuals 
        responsible for each program and activity.''.

SEC. 3. MARKETING OF SERVICES.

    Section 21 of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 648) is amended by 
adding at the end the following:
    ``(o) No Prohibition of Marketing of Services.--The Administrator 
shall not prohibit applicants receiving grants under this section from 
marketing and advertising their services to individuals and small 
businesses.''.

SEC. 4. CONFIDENTIALITY REQUIREMENTS.

    Section 21(a)(7)(A) of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 
648(a)(7)(A)) is amended by inserting after ``under this section'' the 
following: ``to any State, local or Federal agency or third party''.

SEC. 5. DATA COLLECTION.

    (a) In General.--Section 21(a)(3)(A) of the Small Business Act (15 
U.S.C. 648(a)(3)(A)) is amended--
            (1) in clause (ii), by striking ``as provided in this 
        section and'' and inserting ``as provided in this section,''; 
        and
            (2) by inserting before the period at the end the 
        following: ``, and (iv) governing data collection activities 
        related to applicants receiving grants under this section''.
    (b) Annual Report on Data Collection.--Section 21 of the Small 
Business Act (15 U.S.C. 648), as amended by section 3 of this Act, is 
further amended by adding at the end the following:
    ``(p) Annual Report on Data Collection.--The Administrator shall 
report annually to the Committee on Small Business of the House of 
Representatives and the Committee on Small Business and 
Entrepreneurship of the Senate on data collection activities related to 
the Small Business Development Center program.''.

SEC. 6. MATCHMAKING AND OTHER EVENTS.

    Section 21(a)(3)(C) of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 
648(a)(3)(C)) is amended to read as follows:
            ``(C) Such participation in private partnerships and 
        cosponsorships with the Administration shall not limit Small 
        Business Development Centers from collecting fees or other 
        income related to the operation of such partnerships and 
        cosponsorships.''.

SEC. 7. EQUITY FOR SBDCS.

    Section 21(a)(4)(C)(v)(I) of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 
648(a)(4)(C)(v)(I)) is amended--
            (1) in item (aa), by striking ``; and'' and inserting a 
        period; and
            (2) by striking item (bb).

SEC. 8. AWARD OF GRANTS TO SBDCS.

    Section 21 of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 648), as amended by 
sections 3 and 5 of this Act, is further amended by adding at the end 
the following:
    ``(q) Limitation on Award of Grants.--Except for not-for-profit 
institutions of higher education, notwithstanding any provision of law, 
the Administrator shall not award grants (including contracts and 
cooperative agreements) under this section to any entity other than 
those that received grants (including contracts and cooperative 
agreements) under this section prior to September 30, 2014, and that 
seek to renew such grants (including contracts and cooperative 
agreements) after such date.''.

SEC. 9. DISASTER REFORMS.

    Section 21(b)(3) of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 648(b)(3)) is 
amended--
            (1) by striking ``(3) At the discretion'' and inserting the 
        following:
            ``(3) Assistance to out-of-state small businesses.--
                    ``(A) In general.--At the discretion''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following:
                    ``(B) Disaster recovery assistance.--
                            ``(i) In general.--At the discretion of the 
                        Administrator, the Administrator may authorize 
                        a small business development center to provide 
                        assistance, as described in subsection (c), to 
                        a small business concern located outside of the 
                        State, without regard to geographic proximity, 
                        if the small business concern is located in an 
                        area for which the President has declared a 
                        major disaster under section 401 of the Robert 
                        T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency 
                        Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5170), during the 
                        period of the declaration.
                            ``(ii) Continuity of services.--A small 
                        business development center that provides 
                        counselors to an area described in clause (i) 
                        shall, to the maximum extent practicable, 
                        ensure continuity of services in any State in 
                        which the small business development center 
                        otherwise provides services.
                            ``(iii) Access to disaster recovery 
                        facilities.--For purposes of this subparagraph, 
                        the Administrator shall, to the maximum extent 
                        practicable, permit the personnel of a small 
                        business development center to use any site or 
                        facility designated by the Administrator for 
                        use to provide disaster recovery assistance.''.

SEC. 10. INCLUSIONS OF ENTREPRENEURSHIP TRAINING FOR UNEMPLOYED 
              INDIVIDUALS.

    Section 21(c)(3)(A) of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 
648(c)(3)(A)) is amended--
            (1) in clause (iii), by striking ``and'' at the end;
            (2) in clause (iv), by inserting ``and'' at the end; and
            (3) by adding at the end the following:
                    ``(v) educating unemployed individuals on 
                entrepreneurship and working with such individuals to 
                start new businesses;''.
                                                 Union Calendar No. 341

113th CONGRESS

  2d Session

                               H. R. 4121

                          [Report No. 113-461]

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL

 To amend the Small Business Act to provide for improvements to small 
                     business development centers.

_______________________________________________________________________

                              May 21, 2014

Committed to the Committee of the Whole House on the State of the Union 
                       and ordered to be printed
