
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[S. 1586 Introduced in Senate (IS)]

113th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                S. 1586

 To amend title 38, United States Code, to improve dental health care 
                 for veterans, and for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                            October 28, 2013

  Mr. Sanders introduced the following bill; which was read twice and 
             referred to the Committee on Veterans' Affairs

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
 To amend title 38, United States Code, to improve dental health care 
                 for veterans, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Enhanced Dental Care for Veterans 
Act of 2013''.

SEC. 2. RESTORATIVE DENTAL SERVICES FOR VETERANS.

    Section 1710(c) of title 38, United States Code, is amended--
            (1) in the second sentence--
                    (A) by redesignating subparagraphs (A) and (B) as 
                clauses (i) and (ii), respectively; and
                    (B) by redesignating paragraphs (1) and (2) as 
                subparagraphs (A) and (B), respectively;
            (2) by inserting ``(1)'' after ``(c)'';
            (3) by striking ``The Secretary'' and inserting the 
        following:
    ``(2) The Secretary''; and
            (4) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
    ``(3) In addition to the dental services, treatment, and appliances 
authorized to be furnished by paragraph (2), the Secretary may furnish 
dental services and treatment, and dental appliances, needed to restore 
functioning in a veteran that is lost as a result of any services or 
treatment furnished under this subsection.''.

SEC. 3. PILOT PROGRAM ON EXPANSION OF FURNISHING OF DENTAL CARE TO ALL 
              ENROLLED VETERANS.

    (a) Pilot Program Required.--Commencing not later than 180 days 
after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Veterans 
Affairs shall carry out a pilot program to assess the feasibility and 
advisability of furnishing dental care to veterans enrolled in the 
system of patient enrollment under section 1705 of title 38, United 
States Code, who are not eligible for dental services and treatment, 
and related dental appliances, under current authorities.
    (b) Duration of Pilot Program.--The pilot program shall be carried 
out during the three-year period beginning on the date of the 
commencement of the pilot program.
    (c) Locations.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary shall carry out the pilot 
        program at not fewer than 16 locations as follows:
                    (A) Four Department of Veterans Affairs medical 
                centers with an established dental clinic.
                    (B) Four Department medical centers with a current 
                contract for the furnishing of dental care.
                    (C) Four Community-Based Outpatient Clinics (CBOCs) 
                with space available for the furnishing of services and 
                treatment under the pilot program.
                    (D) Four facilities selected from among Federally 
                Qualified Health Centers (FQHCs) and Indian Health 
                Service facilities with established dental clinics, of 
                which--
                            (i) at least one facility shall be such an 
                        Indian Health Service facility; and
                            (ii) any Indian Health Service facility so 
                        selected shall be selected in consultation with 
                        the Secretary of Health and Human Services.
            (2) Considerations.--In selecting locations for the pilot 
        program, the Secretary shall consider the feasibility and 
        advisability of selecting locations in each of the following:
                    (A) Rural areas.
                    (B) Areas that are not in close proximity to an 
                active duty military installation.
                    (C) Areas representing different geographic 
                locations, such as census tracts established by the 
                Bureau of Census.
    (d) Scope of Services.--The dental services and treatment furnished 
to veterans under the pilot program shall be consistent with the dental 
services and treatment furnished by the Secretary to veterans with 
service-connected disabilities rated 100 percent disabling under the 
laws administered by the Secretary.
    (e) Voluntary Participation.--The participation of a veteran in the 
pilot program shall be at the election of the veteran.
    (f) Limitation on Amount of Services.--
            (1) In general.--Except as provided in paragraph (3), the 
        total amount the Secretary may expend furnishing dental 
        services and treatment to any veteran participating in the 
        pilot program during any one-year period may not exceed such 
        amount as the Secretary determines appropriate. The amount so 
        determined may not be less than $1,000.
            (2) Consultation.--The Secretary shall make the 
        determination under paragraph (1)--
                    (A) in consultation with the Director of the Indian 
                Health Service; and
                    (B) in consultation with the Director of the 
                Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services if one or 
                more Federally Qualified Health Centers is selected as 
                a location for the pilot program under subsection 
                (c)(1)(D).
            (3) Services in excess of limitation amount.--The total 
        amount expended by the Secretary in furnishing dental services 
        and treatment to a particular veteran participating in the 
        pilot program during a one-year period may exceed the amount 
        determined under paragraph (1) if the Secretary determines, 
        before furnishing such services and treatment, based on an 
        examination of the veteran by a dentist participating in the 
        pilot program that the furnishing of such services and 
        treatment is necessary. Any determination under this paragraph 
        shall be made on a case-by-case basis.
    (g) Copayments.--The Secretary may collect copayments for dental 
services and treatment furnished under the pilot program in accordance 
with authorities on the collection of copayments for medical care of 
veterans under chapter 17 of title 38, United States Code.
    (h) Program Administration.--
            (1) Notice to covered veterans on pilot program.--In 
        carrying out the pilot program, the Secretary shall inform all 
        veterans eligible to participate in the pilot program of the 
        services and treatment available under the pilot program.
            (2) Contracts.--In carrying out the pilot program, the 
        Secretary may enter into contracts with appropriate entities 
        for the provision of dental services and treatment under the 
        pilot program. Each such contract shall specify performance 
        standards and metrics and processes for ensuring compliance of 
        the contractor concerned with such performance standards.
    (i) Reports.--
            (1) Preliminary reports.--
                    (A) In general.--Not later than each of one year 
                and three years after the date of the commencement of 
                the pilot program, the Secretary shall submit to the 
                Committee on Veterans' Affairs of the Senate and the 
                Committee on Veterans' Affairs of the House of 
                Representatives a report on the pilot program.
                    (B) Contents.--Each report under subparagraph (A) 
                shall include the following:
                            (i) A description of the implementation and 
                        operation of the pilot program.
                            (ii) The number of veterans receiving 
                        services and treatment under the pilot program, 
                        and a description of the dental services and 
                        treatment furnished to such veterans.
                            (iii) An analysis of the costs and benefits 
                        of the pilot program, including a comparison of 
                        costs and benefits by location type.
                            (iv) The current findings and conclusions 
                        of the Secretary with respect to the pilot 
                        program.
                            (v) Such recommendations for the 
                        continuation or expansion of the pilot program 
                        as the Secretary considers appropriate.
            (2) Final report.--
                    (A) In general.--Not later than 180 days after the 
                completion of the pilot program, the Secretary shall 
                submit to the Committee on Veterans' Affairs of the 
                Senate and the Committee on Veterans' Affairs of the 
                House of Representatives a report on the pilot program.
                    (B) Contents.--The report under subparagraph (A) 
                shall include the following:
                            (i) The findings and conclusions of the 
                        Secretary with respect to the pilot program.
                            (ii) Such recommendations for the 
                        continuation or expansion of the pilot program 
                        as the Secretary considers appropriate.

SEC. 4. PROGRAM ON EDUCATION TO PROMOTE DENTAL HEALTH IN VETERANS.

    (a) Program Required.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall 
        carry out a program of education to promote dental health for 
        veterans who are enrolled in the system of patient enrollment 
        of the Department of Veterans Affairs under section 1705 of 
        title 38, United States Code.
            (2) Construction.--Nothing in the program shall be deemed 
        to alter or revise the eligibility of any veteran for dental 
        care under the laws administered by the Secretary.
    (b) Elements.--The program required by subsection (a) shall provide 
education for veterans on the following:
            (1) The association between dental health and overall 
        health and well-being.
            (2) Proper techniques for dental care.
            (3) Signs and symptoms of commonly occurring dental issues, 
        including caries.
            (4) Treatment options for commonly occurring dental issues.
            (5) Options for obtaining access to dental care, including 
        information on eligibility for dental care through the 
        Department and on purchasing private dental insurance.
            (6) Options for obtaining low or no-cost dental care, 
        including through dental schools and Federally Qualified Health 
        Centers.
            (7) Such other matters relating to dental health as the 
        Secretary considers appropriate.
    (c) Delivery of Educational Materials.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary shall provide educational 
        materials to veterans under the program required by subsection 
        (a) through a variety of mechanisms, including the following:
                    (A) The availability and distribution of print 
                materials at Department facilities, including medical 
                centers, clinics, Vet Centers, and readjustment 
                counseling centers.
                    (B) The availability and distribution of materials 
                over the Internet, including through webinars and My 
                HealtheVet.
                    (C) Presentations of information, including both 
                small group and large group presentations.
            (2) Selection of mechanisms.--In selecting mechanisms for 
        purposes of this subsection, the Secretary shall select 
        mechanisms designed to maximize the number of veterans who 
        receive education under the program.

SEC. 5. INFORMATION ON DENTAL SERVICES FOR INCLUSION IN ELECTRONIC 
              MEDICAL RECORDS UNDER DENTAL INSURANCE PILOT PROGRAM.

    (a) In General.--Commencing not later than 180 days after the date 
of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall 
expand the dental insurance pilot program established by section 17.169 
of title 38, Code of Federal Regulations, to establish a mechanism by 
which private sector dental care providers may forward to the 
Department of Veterans Affairs information on dental care furnished to 
individuals under the pilot program for inclusion in the electronic 
medical records of the Department with respect to such individuals.
    (b) Construction With Current Pilot Program Requirements.--
            (1) In general.--Nothing in this section shall be construed 
        to revise eligibility for participation in, or the locations 
        of, the pilot program referred to in subsection (a).
            (2) Duration.--The Secretary may continue the pilot program 
        for two years in addition to the duration otherwise provided 
        for the pilot program in section 17.169 of title 38, Code of 
        Federal Regulations, if the Secretary determines that the 
        continuation is needed to assess the mechanism required by 
        subsection (a).
            (3) Voluntary participation in mechanism.--The 
        participation in the mechanism required by subsection (a) of an 
        individual otherwise participating in the pilot program shall 
        be at the election of the individual.
    (c) Inclusion of Information on Mechanism in Reports.--Each report 
to Congress on the pilot program after the date of the commencement of 
the mechanism required by subsection (a) shall include information on 
the mechanism, including a current assessment of the feasibility and 
advisability of using the mechanism to include information on dental 
care furnished to individuals in the electronic medical records of the 
Department with respect to such individuals.
                                 <all>
