
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 558 Introduced in House (IH)]

113th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                H. R. 558

    To provide Capitol-flown flags to the immediate family of fire 
fighters, law enforcement officers, emergency medical technicians, and 
        other rescue workers who are killed in the line of duty.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                            February 6, 2013

 Mr. King of New York (for himself, Mr. Young of Alaska, Mr. Reichert, 
  Mr. Grimm, Ms. Bordallo, Mr. Larson of Connecticut, Mr. Runyan, Mr. 
 Ruppersberger, Mr. Pascrell, Mr. Coble, and Mr. Jones) introduced the 
     following bill; which was referred to the Committee on House 
                             Administration

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
    To provide Capitol-flown flags to the immediate family of fire 
fighters, law enforcement officers, emergency medical technicians, and 
        other rescue workers who are killed in the line of duty.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Fallen Heroes Flag Act of 2013''.

SEC. 2. PROVIDING CAPITOL-FLOWN FLAGS FOR FAMILIES OF LAW ENFORCEMENT 
              AND RESCUE WORKERS KILLED IN THE LINE OF DUTY.

    (a) In General.--At the request of the immediate family of a fire 
fighter, law enforcement officer, emergency technician, or other rescue 
worker who died in the line of duty, the Representative of the family 
may provide the family with a Capitol-flown flag, together with the 
certificate described in subsection (c).
    (b) No Cost to Family.--A flag provided under this section shall be 
provided at no cost to the family.
    (c) Certificate.--The certificate described in this subsection is a 
certificate which is signed by the Speaker of the House of 
Representatives and the Representative providing the flag, and which 
contains an expression of sympathy from the House of Representatives 
for the family involved, as prepared and developed by the Clerk of the 
House of Representatives.
    (d) Definitions.--In this section--
            (1) the term ``Capitol-flown flag'' means a United States 
        flag flown over the United States Capitol in honor of the 
        deceased individual for whom such flag is requested; and
            (2) the term ``Representative'' includes a Delegate or 
        Resident Commissioner to the Congress.

SEC. 3. REGULATIONS AND PROCEDURES.

    (a) In General.--Not later than 30 days after the date of the date 
of the enactment of this Act, the Clerk shall issue regulations for 
carrying out this Act, including regulations to establish procedures 
(including any appropriate forms, guidelines, and accompanying 
certificates) for requesting a Capitol-flown flag.
    (b) Approval by Committee on House Administration.--The regulations 
issued by the Clerk under subsection (a) shall take effect upon 
approval by the Committee on House Administration of the House of 
Representatives.

SEC. 4. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.

    There are authorized to be appropriated for each of the fiscal 
years 2013 through 2018 such sums as may be necessary to carry out this 
Act, to be derived from amounts appropriated in each such fiscal year 
for the operation of the Capitol Visitor Center, except that the 
aggregate amount appropriated to carry out this Act for all such fiscal 
years may not exceed $30,000.

SEC. 5. EFFECTIVE DATE.

    This Act shall take effect on the date of its enactment, except 
that no flags may be provided under section 2 until the Committee on 
House Administration of the House of Representatives approves the 
regulations issued by the Clerk of the House of Representatives under 
section 3.
                                 <all>
