
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 908 Reported in House (RH)]

                                                 Union Calendar No. 244
113th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                H. R. 908

                          [Report No. 113-328]

 To preserve the Green Mountain Lookout in the Glacier Peak Wilderness 
             of the Mount Baker-Snoqualmie National Forest.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                           February 28, 2013

 Ms. DelBene (for herself and Mr. Larsen of Washington) introduced the 
    following bill; which was referred to the Committee on Natural 
                               Resources

             January 23 (legislative day, January 21), 2014

   Committed to the Committee of the Whole House on the State of the 
                    Union and ordered to be printed


_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
 To preserve the Green Mountain Lookout in the Glacier Peak Wilderness 
             of the Mount Baker-Snoqualmie National Forest.


 


    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Green Mountain Lookout Heritage 
Protection Act''.

SEC. 2. CLARIFICATION OF LEGAL AUTHORITY OF GREEN MOUNTAIN LOOKOUT.

    (a) Legal Authority of Lookout.--Section 4(b) of the Washington 
State Wilderness Act of 1984 (Public Law 98-339; 98 Stat. 300; 16 
U.S.C. 1131 note) is amended by striking the period at the end and 
inserting the following: ``, and except that with respect to the lands 
described in section 3(5), the designation of such lands as a 
wilderness area shall not preclude the operation and maintenance of 
Green Mountain Lookout.''
    (b) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this section shall take 
effect as if included in the enactment of the Washington State 
Wilderness Act of 1984.

SEC. 3. PRESERVATION OF GREEN MOUNTAIN LOOKOUT LOCATION.

    The Secretary of Agriculture, acting through the Chief of the 
Forest Service, may not move Green Mountain Lookout from its current 
location on Green Mountain in the Mount Baker-Snoqualmie National 
Forest unless the Secretary determines that moving Green Mountain 
Lookout is necessary to preserve the Lookout or to ensure the safety of 
individuals on or around Green Mountain. If the Secretary makes such a 
determination, the Secretary shall move the Green Mountain Lookout to a 
location outside of the lands described in section 3(5) of the 
Washington State Wilderness Act of 1984 and designated as a wilderness 
area in section 4(b) of such Act.
                                                 Union Calendar No. 244

113th CONGRESS

  2d Session

                               H. R. 908

                          [Report No. 113-328]

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL

 To preserve the Green Mountain Lookout in the Glacier Peak Wilderness 
             of the Mount Baker-Snoqualmie National Forest.

_______________________________________________________________________

             January 23 (legislative day, January 21), 2014

Committed to the Committee of the Whole House on the State of the Union 
                       and ordered to be printed
